RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL      (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 18-MAR-1999 11:59:03.00

SUBJECT:   second try

TO: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
---------------------- Forwarded by Elena Kagan/OPD/EOP on 03/18/99 12:01
PM ---------------------------




Devorah R. Adler
03/18/99 11:49:54 AM
Record Type:     Record

To:      Elena Kagan/OPD/EOP
cc:
Subject:         second try

here you go.

Q:      What is the PresidentD,s response to the PatientsD, Bill of
Rights legislation that is presently being marked up by the Senate Labor
Committee?

A:      The legislation Senator Jeffords intends to mark up today falls
far short of what is necessary to meet the needs of patients in a rapidly
changing health care system. It will not cover tens of millions of
Americans; it will not have a standard to prevent HMOs from making
arbitrary coverage decisions; and it will have a wholly inadequate
mechanism to enforce patientsD, rights. This helps explains why every
major patient, doctor, and nurse advocacy organization has concluded that
the Chairman's mark is flawed and will not adequately protect patients.

Clearly, we are disappointed that the Democratic subsitute bill did not
receive a majority vote. However, we believe that this legislation can,
must, and will be improved as the legislative process proceeds. Today and
tomorrow there will be a number of strengthening amendments to the
underlying ChairmanD,s mark which we hope will receive consideration.
Regardless we agree with Senators Daschle and Kennedy that this bill will
be improved on the Senate floor when the entire public is focused on a
debate of the issues at stake.
