RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Julie A. Fernandes ( CN=Julie A. Fernandes/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 11-NOV-1998 12:09:51.00

SUBJECT:   Late Amnesty and Las Vegas

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Maria Echaveste ( CN=Maria Echaveste/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Marjorie Tarmey ( CN=Marjorie Tarmey/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Leslie Bernstein ( CN=Leslie Bernstein/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Maria/Elena,
Last Thursday, I met with a group of advocates from Las Vegas. According
to them, there are approximately 27,000 immigrants in the Las Vegas area
who were issued fraudulent work authorizations by the INS between 1989 and
1991. The INS began notifying this group in 1996 that their documentation
was fraudulently obtained and that they need to come forward to assert the
legitimate basis for having work authorization (which would include being
a prima facie member of one of' the "late amnesty" classes). Otherwise,
their authorization was to be revoked.

It is likely that some who obtained fraudulent work authorizations thought
that they were undergoing a legitimate process and perhaps even claimed
(to the notario or lawyer involved) that they were eligible for "late
amnesty." However, all of the authorizations were fraudulently obtained.
Only those who can demonstrate a legitimate basis for obtaining the
authorization (e.g., had a legitimate "late amnesty" claim) will have
their work papers renewed -- a very small number.

The only problem is the equities that many of these immigrants have built
up over eight or nine years. They have lived and worked in the U.S.;
bought homes; paid taxes; etc.  It is going to be a significant hardship
for many of them to have to return home. However, I don't think that we
want to be in a position of rewarding fraud.

The advocates for these folks have been making the rounds.  They spoke
with the VP when he was in Las vegas some weeks ago (his office is
interested in what has been going on); have involved the AFL-CIO (some of
those with fraudulent documents are union members); have contacted the
INS; the Office of Special Counsel at Justice and even Secretary
Richardson (whose office called here to inquire about the situation) .

I will keep you posted on any further developments.

julie


