RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Leslie Bernstein ( CN=Leslie Bernstein/OU=WHO/O=EOP [ WHO 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 1-DEC-1998 16:07:45.00

SUBJECT:   Phthalates 12/1

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Marjorie Tarmey ( CN=Marjorie Tarmey/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Maria Echaveste ( CN=Maria Echaveste/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:

Industry, consumers, t~ade blows on phthalates
ENDS Daily -01/12/98

European industry and consumer groups have clashed bitterly
over the disputed PVC softening chemicals phthalates,
following the latest EU scientific report on the issue. The
row includes allegations of "mis-information" traded between
the European Consumers' Organisation (Beuc) and toy and
plasticiser manufacturers.

In an opinion released yesterday, the EU committee on
toxicity, ecotoxicity and the environment concluded that
there was still "cause for concern" over phthalates used in
toys.   The committee found two phthalates, DINP and DEHP to
present risks above the strictest safety threshold, though
below levels at which actual harm has been observed in tests
(ENDS' Daily 30 November) .

Beuc responded by calling on the EU to immediately ban "all
toys" containing phthalates through emergency provisions in
product safety legislation. The organisation has been in
favour of prohibition since the EU scientists' earlier
report in April, and now says that the case for a ban has
been strengthened.

The new report marks a "watershed" in the debate on
phthalate~, according to Beuc. It is now clear that the use
of phthalate softeners in children's toys carries a
"substantial and unnecessary health risk," and that there
should be "grave concern" over the issue, the organisation
says.

Beuc described efforts by the European toy and plasticiser
industries to defend phthalates as "obscene".  Children are
being "deliberately placed at risk by toy manufacturers who
have executed a systematic campaign of mis-information," the
consumers' group concluded.

But in a statement released today, the European Council for
Plasticisers and Intermediates (ECPI) and Toy Industries of
Europe claimed that it was Greenpeace and Beuc, rather than
·

themselves, who were "misleading the public" on phthalates.
The bodies called on environmental organisations to "stop
their ill-informed and fear-mongering campaign," which they
said was "scaring parents into believing their children can
be harmed by sucking soft plastic toys."

According to ECPI and TiE, the new scientific opinion "does
not state that plasticised toys are unsafe". They also
describe as "good news" the committee's conclusion that
there is a greater margin of safety than it previously
thought for DINP, the main phthalate used in toys.

Moreover, the organisations say, new scientific findings,
which were reviewed by the committee but not incorporated
into its conclusions, would further increase the safety
margin for DINP from 75 to well over 100. Under normal
scientific procedures, this would take the chemical beyond
the threshold at which there is cause for concern.

    Contacts: Beuc (http://www.beuc.org), tel: +32 2 743 1590;
    Toy Industries of Europe, tel: +32 2 732 7040; ECPI
    (http://www.ecpi.org), tel: +32 2 676 7243.


