RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Stephen C. Warnath ( CN=Stephen C. Warnath/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:28-FEB-1997 15:56:39.00

SUBJECT:   An idea for you to considerl

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed (   CN~Bruce   N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
I have been working with DOJ and the American Bar Association to put
together an initiative that would encourage lawyers, both public and
private, to volunteer more time to providing legal help to legal
immigrants.  The ABA is very excited about this and the Attorney General
pledged DOJ to do this.   This is getting high-level attention on both
sides as evidenced by the planning meeting that I particpated in awhile
ago that was hosted by Jamie and also attended by the ABA
President-elect.   The plan has been to have specifics put together for
April,  when the ABA President would unveil i t .  I wonder whether
alternatively you would be interested in having the President unveil this
as part of the Summit on volunteer service.    (Or it could be done as a
freestanding event.)

This initiative is consistent with the President's statements about
wanting to protect legal immigrants from hardships under the new
legislation; this would help legal immigrants work their way through the
new rules and requirements of the welfare and immigration laws so that
they better understand their situation and do not improperly lose access
to services that they. may be eligible for.   It also advances the
President's Executive Order on Civil Justice Reform (Sec. 2 Government
Pro Bono and Volunteer Service).    I think that this can be a very
positive, productive initiative and a solid contribution to the summit or
an event.  This can be a good example of a meaningful public/private
cooperative effort not based upon additional public funding requirements
(with the potential for a sustained commitment and stories -- the ABA
certainly wants to feature it in their conferences and publications) .

So what do you think?
·

