     RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

     CREATOR: Jeffrey A. Shesol ( CN=Jeffrey A. Shesol/OU=WHO/O=EOP [ WHO 1 )

     CREATION DATE/TIME:22-JAN-1999 17:21:17.00

     SUBJECT:   revised draft remarks welfare to work -- comments to Jeff Shesol ASAP 6-27

     TO: Mona G. ~ohib ( CN=Mona G. Mohib/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Andrea Kane ( CN=Andrea Kane/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Lynn G. Cutler ( CN=Lynn G. Cutler/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO
     READ:UNKNOWN

     TO: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 ).
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Cathy R. Mays   ( CN=Cathy R. Mays/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
     READ:UNKNOWN

     TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TEXT:
     Draft 01/22/99 5:00pm
     Jeff She sol

     PRESIDENT WILLIAM J. CLINTON
     REMARKS ON WELFARE-TO-WORK INITIATIVES
     THE WHITE HOUSE
     January 25, 1999

             Acknowledgments: Sees. Herman, Shalala, Slater, Cuomo TBD; Janice LaChance
     , Dir. of OPM; Aida Alvarez, Administrator of SBA; Gov. Mel Carnahan;
     father TBD; Robert Higgins, Fleet Bank President and Chief Operating
     Officer

             This new year, 1999, is just about my twentieth year of work on
     the welfare issue. As governor, I used to invite former welfare
     recipients to panel discussions, to talk to me and other governors about
     the difference that work -- something as basic as a full-time job -- had
     made in their lives. We had to take their word for it, back then, because
     there were not many success stories of the transition from welfare to
     work.  Welfare, as it existed then, seemed to promote dependence rather
     than independence.  It seemed, to many Americans, to reward the wrong
     attitude while punishing the right one.

             In the past six years we have done much to change all that. When
     I became President, I worked with 43 states, freeing them from federal
     strictures, enabling them to create new, innovative programs that move
     Americans from welfare to work; and, in 1996, I signed the landmark


bipartisan welfare reform law, ending the old system as we knew it.  I
said then that D&our nationD,s answer to the problems of poverty will no
longer be a never-ending cycle of welfare; it will be the digni~y, the
power, and the ethic of work.DB

        Today, already, even our greatest hopes are being surpassed.
Welfare rolls are the smallest in 30 years, down by 44 percent since I
took office. More single parents are joining the workforce.   And overall,
just in the past year, 1.5 million who were on welfare in 1997 were
working in 1998.

        The welfare system is no longer holding people back; it is helping
them move ahead. Welfare reform alone could not achieve that. That is
why have continued to support health care and child care for low-income
families.  And we have doubled the Earned Income Tax Credit, a targeted
tax cut that is especially generous to low-income working families.  For a
family of four with an annual income of less than $30,000, that tax cut is
worth about $1,000.

         I have said that if we are going to require able-bodied people to
take jobs, we have to make sure as a nation that there are jobs for them
to take.   In our strong and growing economy, the true engine of job growth
is the private sector. Two years ago, I asked five companies to lead a
national effort to hire people off welfare.   Tonight, our Welfare to Work
partnership includes 10,000 companies who have hired hundreds of thousands
of people. WeD,ve heard some of those success stories this morning; and I
know, between Eli Segal and companies like Fleet, we will be hearing many
more in the years to come.

        Smaller case loads and bigger paychecks are important signs of
progress.  But they are not the only ones.   The sense of pride, the sense
of security of newly working Americans -- these are the best measures of
our success. As more Americans gain the confidence that a full-time job
can bring, we gain confidence that our new strategy is working and
strengthen our determination to do more.

        We know what works. We know how to turn long-term welfare
recipients into full-time workers. Now, as we move into the 21st Century,
we must ensure that even more Americans move from welfare to work.  In my
State of the Union Address last week, I said we can help another 200,000
Americans move from welfare to work.  To achieve that goal, I propose that
we renew the successful Welfare-to-Work program, which is set to expire in
the year 2000. My balanced budget includes $1 billion to help states and
communities build upon their record of success. A little more than half
of those funds will extend, for another year, the tax credits that help
more employers hire more people off welfare.

        I am also announcing that my budget dedicates $150 million to
low-income fathers who fulfill their duty to work, to pay child support,
and to become part of their childrenD,s lives again.  Every father has
that responsibility to his children and the mother of his children.   And
if all fathers paid the support they should, [TK) million women would go
off the welfare rolls immediately.  But some fathers have difficulty
getting a job, and that is why many states are using some of their
Welfare-to-work funds to help committed fathers of children on welfare
fathers who sign personal responsibility contracts -- to get jobs.   My
balanced budget will help ensure every state can support fathers who
support their families.

        There is more we must do.   Welfare recipients who remain on the


rolls, in many cases, face the greatest challenges to entering the
workforce.  We know that if you canD,t get to work, you canD,t go to
work. Two-thirds of new jobs are in the suburbs, but three-quarters of
welfare recipients live in cities or rural areas.  That is why my balanced
budget will double funding to get workers to the workplace.  I am also
announcing a 50 percent increase in housing vouchers -- to help families
find affordable homes, avoid those difficult commutes, and to get them
closer to a new job and a better, brighter future.

        Thanks to the efforts of companies like Fleet, officials like
Governor Carnahan, and working Americans like [TK] , more families are
enjoying that kind of future.  Across our nation, governors and mayors and
counties are joining with the private sector to develop new ways to move
people from welfare to work. We do not have all the answers here in
Washington. But there is at least one thing we can do -- and that is to
renew an investment that is expanding opportunity and rewarding
responsibility for millions of Americans.  I urge the Congress to do
exactly that. In that way, we can continue to make good on what I called,
two years ago, D&a historic chance to make welfare what it was meant to
be: a second chance, not a way of life.DB We can go farther toward
fulfilling our nationD,s basic bargain -- to reward the hard work of our
citizens, and to give them the tools to succeed in changing and exciting
times. Thank you.


