RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 1-FEB-1999 17:56:44.00

SUBJECT:   Great Debate, Take II

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Let me know what changes you'd like:

        This year we will have a great debate in Congress about the next
steps to improve education in America. There are some in Congress who
believe the national government has no business investing more in public
education.  I believe they're wrong -- we should finish the job of hiring
100,000 teachers to reduce class size, and pass our tax credit to build or
modernize 5,000 schools.  But this debate. is not just about money.  Some
of those same people argue that even though we spend $15 billion a year on
public education, the national government has no business holding the
system accountable for results.  That's wrong, too.   I believe that as a
nation, we should say once and for all that no child in America should be
taught by an unprepared teacher. No child in America should be passed
from grade to grade without having mastered the material. No child in
America should be trapped in a failing school. The education of our
children must be a national priority, and holding our schools accountable
for results must be a national commitment.

        From now on, we must say to states and school districts:   Identify
your worst-performing, least improving schools, and turn them around, or
shut them down. Today I am pleased to announce that the balanced budget I
submitted yesterday contains a new $200 million pool of flexible Title I
funds that states and schools districts can use to turn failing schools
around. We must make sure all schools are on the right track.    If we fail
to do this, and do it quickly, we are going to lose another generation of
children to low expectations, low educational achievement, and low
prospects of moving ahead in life.


