RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Jeanne Lambrew ( CN=Jeanne Lambrew/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 9-FEB-1999 13:48:34.00

SUBJECT:   response to HHS's argument about Medicaid

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Devorah R. Adler ( CN=Devorah R. Adler/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Christopher C. Jennings    ( CN=Christopher C. Jennings/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPO 1
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
From Chris as well:


HHS argues that a decision about state action in Medicare is not
applicable to Medicaid because Medicare beneficiaries can always return to
fee-for-service, while Medicaid beneficiaries cannot not.   (Note: Under
the BBA, by 2001, beneficiaries will be locked into managed care plans for
nine months from when they join the plan) .

Medicaid is not that different from Medicare -- millions of Medicaid
beneficiaries have a choice of managed care or fee-for-service.

        Only 2 states have 100 percent of beneficiaries in managed care
(Tennessee and Washington). States need 1115 waivers to require
Medicare-Medicaid D&dual eligiblesD8 and children with special needs to
join Medicaid managed care plans.  In 10 states, less than 25 percent of
beneficiaries are enrolled in managed care.

        Half (25) of states do not enroll any elderly or disabled Medicaid
beneficiaries in managed care. This, plus the choice of fee-for-service
for some adults and children account for the fact that 50 percent of
Medicaid beneficiaries are not enrolled in managed care.

 Absurd to make the case based on whether a beneficiary chooses managed
care.  In Medicaid, some children with special needs can choose but cannot
be forced to enroll in managed care -- while healthy children may be
required to enroll.  Under HHSD,s logic, it would be alright to have no
private right of action for the sick child whose parentsD, chose managed
care but not alright to take away the right of action from the healthy
child.

Some Medicare-Medicaid dual eligibles are enrolled in managed care.  For
some elderly and people with disabilities, Medicare covers their basic
health services and Medicaid pays for prescription drugs, Medicare cost
sharing, etc.  In this situation, the managed care plan could be sued as a
state actor in Medicaid but not in Medicare.


