RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 16-FEB-1999 18:06:16.00

SUBJECT:   Waxman's staff new twist on recoupment

TO: Jeanne Lambrew ( CN=Jeanne Lambrew/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD   1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: J. Eric Gould ( CN=J. Eric Gould/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD   1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Devorah R. Adler ( CN=Devorah R. Adler/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Christopher C. Jennings ( CN=Christopher C. Jennings/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Josh, Rich, Lisa K, and I met with Waxman's staff this afternoon and they
have a new twist on recoupment.  They want to produce that spends about
half the money on tobacco control and the other half either on debt relief
or on a menu of health and other programs.  They believe they can get
bipartisan support and can rally the groups around this effort.

Instead of letting the states keep the funds so long as they spend it for
certain specified purposes, they propose that, at least for funds to be
used for tobacco control, the funds be spent at the federal level.
Specifically, they would propose to fund the $2.6 billion a year in
tobacco-related spending in the Hansen-Meehan bill which included:

        (1) $500 million on a national education campaign (including
counteradertising)
        (2) $300 million on FDA
        (3) $600 million on grants to communities and schools
        (4) $1 billion on research
        (5) $200 million on cessation

They argued strenuously that spending at the federal level is the best way
to ensure these funds are spent effectively and why -- if nothing else for
positioning reasons -- wouldn't they want to start there?

They are less sure what they want to do with the other half of the funds.
Phil Schiliro, Waxman's chief of staff, argued that putting the rest
towards debt service would be the cleanest message that would attract the
most Repubicans.  Phil Barnett, Waxman's committee counsel, argued that a
less specified menu had advantages.

We should discuss.


