RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Devorah R. Adler ( CN=Devorah R. Adler/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 19-FEB-1999 17:22:33.00

SUBJECT:   LAST MINUTE CHANGE WEEKLY

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Paul J. Weinstein Jr.   ( CN=Paul J. Weinstein Jr./OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Stem Cell. Next Tuesday, at her Appropriations Committee hearing,
Secretary Shalala is expected to be questioned about the DepartmentD,s
statutory interpretation the Congressional ban on human embryo research
does not apply to stem cell research, since the cells cannot be considered
embryos as they do not have the capacity to develop into a human being.
This hearing follows a letter signed by 70 members of Congress that
raising serious objections to this interpretation and suggesting that it
not only serves to thwart the law, but could well encourage researchers to
engineer lethal defects into embyros in order to use the tissue for
research purposes. The disease and patient advocacy community is strongly
supportive of our interpretation. However, it is clear that we need to
better emphasize our committment to implement safeguards that ensure that
the cells obtained for this research have no direct link to human embryos.
There is bipartisan support for this position, but Mr. Porter and Senator
Spector have indicated their desire to develop legislation that codifies
how we are going to implement these safeguards. We do not plan on
signaling our openness to any such compromise language for next weekD,s
hearing, but we are drafting legislation to be available should the need
arrive.


