RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Thomas L. Freedman ( CN=Thomas L. Freedman/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 3-MAR-1999 10:21:01.00

SUBJECT:   Recoupment and farmers

TO: J. Eric Gould ( CN=J. Eric Gould/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Mary L. Smith ( CN=Mary L. Smith/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Bruce asked me to check in with congressional offices on how they would
prefer the recoupment language on farmers to read: should the states be
credited for money that explicitly goes through the trusts set up under
the Phase II agreement or should states be credited for funds spent in
more general categories such as "promoting economic development in regions
injured by reduced sales or price of tobacco."    I checked with Senator
Robb's staff who is the main Dem. in the Senate now on the subject, and
Rep. Etheridge's staff who took a lead role last year and ago staff.
They all preferred we didn't have any bill, but if there is a bill want us
to' use the general categories not the trusts. Gov. Patton's staff felt
the same.    Another very good argument for the general categories is the
current drafting of the Phase II trust language. Although not finalized,
the language requires that while some of the states have their own trusts,
the tobacco companies will appoint a national board to oversee overall
distribution of funds and deal with direct allocation of funds in some of
the smaller states like Ohio.   I'd guess we wouldn't want to put money
into a system where they have so much control.


