RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Maria Echaveste ( CN;Maria Echaveste/OU;WHO/O;EOP [ WHO 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 4-MAR-1999 15:36:06.00

SUBJECT:   police/crime

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN;Elena Kagan/OU;OPD/O;EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Jose Cerda III ( CN;Jose Cerda III/OU;OPD/O;EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN;Bruce N. Reed/OU;OPD/O;EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: edley ( edley @ law.harvard.edu @ inet [ UNKNOWN 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Irene Bueno     CN;Irene Bueno/OU;OPD/O;EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Clara J. Shin ( CN;Clara J. Shin/OU;WHO/O;EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Charles F. Ruff ( CN;Charles F. Ruff/OU;WHO/O;EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
seems like our mtg on police brutality, your' policy process on the crime
bill should result in a coordinated plan--But we also have the crime
section of the Race book.  You'll recall that Elena said that she would
follow up by working out the policy options so we'd know what we'll be
saying about racial profiling, police brutality--We are still working on
trying to get this book done by April 1--I'd like your options to be
developed sufficiently so that we could come to closure the week of March
15. That means not just incorporating the good ideas discussed today but
also fully exploring whether an executive order on federal law enforcement
could be done and just as importantly what do we say about the INS.
Because I will be in Central America next week, I can't give this the
attention it deserves and am counting on you all to complete this work and
to include Edley and/or designee in this development process.   I am
scheduling the next racial profiling meeting for Monday, March 15. Please
be ready to discuss the options then (paper beforehand would be much
appreciated).  Thanks.


