RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Jonathan H. Schnur ( CN=Jonathan H. Schnur/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 8-MAR-1999 16:36:57.00

SUBJECT:   class size/IDEA

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Two questions.

First, do you think it would make any sense to explore offering an
amendment that would authorize full funding for class size and increased
funding for IDEA? I am a little concerned that the Jeffords amendment
could successfully recast the debate from whether to invest in
education/class size to whether to fully fund the national commitment to
special needs children before funding new initiatives like class size.   I
am also concerned that argument could get validated by local school
districts --seems like there has been a successful effort to generate
complaints around the country about the costs of special ed. I realize
that a new amendment would raise questions about where this funding will
come from in this and future years, but it could help refocus the debate
back to where we want.

Second, Judd Gregg made a number of statements that were false or
misleading about the Supreme Court decision on special education last
week.  Should we get something to help Kennedy, Murray the opportunity to
rebut these? For example, Gregg said (incorrectly, i am nearly certain)
that this decision meant that costs of medical care for kids with
disabilities could no longer be covered by Medicaid --that now they needed
to be covered by the local school districts.   He also suggested the
consequence of this decision will be "exponential" increases in costs to
districts around the country; again, I think this is just not true.   In
1991, the Office of Technology Assistance estimated that there are about
680-2000 students who needs ventilator assistance, and that 1000-6000
students requiring assistance of tracheatomy tubes.   The National School
Boards Association estimates that there are about 17,000 students with any
type of need covered by this decision --many much less costly than this
student's needs
.<

