RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Jonathan H. Schnur ( CN=Jonathan H. Schnur/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD ] )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 8-MAR-1999 18:41:29.00

SUBJECT:   revisions in daily report from Jon and Tanya

TO: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO ] )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ] )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Sorry about the change below! The addition is in bold, the deletion in
brackets and italics. Elena, you may have already changed this. I have
been paging people to try to get accurate info.


Today, the Senate resumed consideration of S.280 (Ed-Flex) and failed to
get the 60 votes needed to approve a cloture motion ending debate on the
Ed-Flex bill.   Approval of the cloture motion would have prevented an up
or down vote on the Murray-Kennedy class size amendment.    Senator Lott
has indicated that he will either set aside the bill or allow debate to
continue with limited amendments, and another cloture vote is scheduled
for tomorrow afternoon '[morning]. Vice President Gore today made
statements to the press calling on the Senate to allow an up-or-down vote
on class size, and calling on the Senate to approve the Murray-Kennedy
amendment.  Meanwhile, Senator Jeffords plans to offer a second-degree
amendment that would permit local school districts to choose whether to
use FY 1999 class size appropriations for reducing class size or for
special education. [to the class size measure rescind FY1999 class size
appropriations and direct this funding into special education instead] .
Republicans are attempting to recast the debate from whether to invest in
education/class size to whether to fully fund a national commitment to
special needs children before funding new initiatives like class size.


