RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD    1 )
CREATION DATE/TIME: 9-MAR-1999 13:09:43.00

SUBJECT:   what we always suspected

TO: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/oU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD     1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
 Ex-Surgeon General Dr. C. Everett Koop "wants to raise" $50M from
investors for
            his self-named Web site -- www.drkoop.com. Koop, now 82 and a
professor at Dartmouth,
            launched the consumer health care site in 7/98. It offers "a
grab bag of consumer health
            programs," and the site claims to have more than 2.6M users.
But drkoop.com Inc., based
            in Austin, TX, and previously called Empower Health, hasn't
done so well: Last year, it lost
            $17.7M on revenues of just $43K according to company documents.
That "may make this
            deal dangerous to your financial health, but it doesn't mean it
won't fly." The company has
            the valuable name recognition of Dr. Koop, who was "the
nation's most outspoken critic of
            cigarettes when he was the country's top doctor, and it comes
at a time when investors are
            snapping up most anything related to the Internet." Donald
Hackett, CEO of drkoop.com,
            Inc.: "What we are doing is putting into effect Dr. Koop's
vision. He is motivated, as we all
           are, to change health care in America." Whatever happens, Koop
"should do well." The
            company pays him 2% of its revenues under a royalty agreement
that gives it exclusive
            rights to his name and image for five years, with an option to
renew for three more years.
           According to the offering documents, drkoop.com paid Koop $100K
in salary last year,
            $95K in lecture fees and another $83K in fees as chairman of
its board of directors. In
           addition, Koop - - who was one of a handful of founders of the
company that bears his
           name - - owns 11% of the stock of drkoop.com, or just over 1M
shares (Feldman, New
           York Daily News, 3/9) .  (Back to Contents)


