  RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (NOTES MAIL)

  CREATOR: Barbara Chow ( CN=Barbara Chow/OU=OMB/O=EOP [ OMB 1 )

  CREATION DATE/TIME:11-MAR-1999 09:37:59.00

  SUBJECT:     "Cost" of the IDEA/Supreme Court ruling

  TO: Jonathan H. Schnur ( CN=Jonathan H. Schnur/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
  READ:UNKNOWN

  TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD   1 )
  READ:UNKNOWN

  CC: Sandra Yamin ( CN=Sandra Yamin/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
  READ: UNKNOWN

  CC: David Rowe ( CN=David Rowe/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
  READ: UNKNOWN

  TEXT:
  I asked my staff to double check the potential costs of the IDEA Supreme
  Court ruling and confirm our earlier understanding that this will not
  result in significant (or possibly any) additional
  expenses--notwithstanding the National School Board Association estimates
  that this could cost up to $500 million/year.  The bottom line is that we
  have no good cost estimates (and are unlikely to develop any given the
  paucity of the data) but ED still does not believe this is a cost issue.
  ---------------------- Forwarded by Barbara Chow/OMB/EOP on 03/11/99 09:33
  AM ---------------------------




             David Rowe

             03/10/99 06:40:36 PM

  Record Type: Record

  To: Barbara Chow/OMB/EOP@EOP
  cc: Barry White/OMB/EOP@EOP, Wayne Upshaw/OMB/EOP@EOP, Sandra
  Yamiri/OMB/EOP@EOP
  Subject: "Cost" of the IDEA/Supreme Court ruling


  Today I had a few informal discussions with people at ED regarding the
  "cost" of the Supreme Court ruling.  The consensus at ED is that the
  decision should not have much of a cost at all because the decision just
  affirmed ED's position on what school districts should have been providing
  students with disabilities in the first place, and that it is difficult if
  not impossible to derive a good estimate of what costs this ruling might
  impose on school districts.  ED, in other words, doesn't have a cost
  estimate for us.

  The "cost" of this ruling would be relatively small for a couple reasons.
  First, there aren't too many disabled students who are comparable to the
  child in the Supreme Court case.  ED estimates that there are between 680
  and 2,000 "ventilator dependent" children in the U.S. (this estimate was
  actually derived by the former Office of Technology Assessment); ED does


not know, however, how many of these students attend school and thus
receive services under IDEA. Some of these children may be receiving care
in hospitals, others may be infants.

Second, the additional cost of the ruling would be relatively small
because many, if not most, school districts already provide nursing
services to disabled students who need them.   ED has already talked to
reps from MA and CA, who said this ruling wouldn't affect them because
they already serve these students.  Someone from ED also told me that the
Cedar Rapids school district (i.e., the district being sued in the Supreme
Court case) provided nursing services to a Medicaid-eligible student
similar to the one in the case.  In the Supreme Court case, the district
was just trying to keep from paying for nursing services for a family who
was not Meicaid-eligible.

To derive a cost estimate, you would have to estimate how many severely
disabled students were not receiving nursing students prior to the ruling,
and estimate the additional cost of providing nursing services to these
students. ED does not have an estimate of how many students are currently
not receiving nursing services.

please also note that school districts can be reimbursed for providing
nursing or other medical services through either Medicaid (for which half
of disabled students are eligible) or parents' private insurance if the
parents consent.  Schools, in other words, don't have to pick up the tab
in most cases.

The other factor affecting the ruling's "costs" is whether schools may
react to this case by overcompensating.   In other words, schools may
react to this ruling by providing more expensive medical services to
students not as severely disabled as the one in the case, out of fear of
being sued. ED doesn't have an estimate of these costs, and I doubt they
could come up with a good estimate here.

The people I talked to at ED also brought up a couple other interesting
points:

In today's special education hearing before the House Labor-H
appropriations SUbcommittee, Porter told Judy Heumann that groups have
been telling him that the cost of this ruling will be about $500
million/year.  In response to Porter's question, Judy told him that the
ruling should not have a significant impact of special ed costs because
most schools already provide these nursing services to students.

Porter's $500 million number is the National School Boards Association's
number, and the folks at ED told me that it was not a good estimate,
primarily because most of the students counted in the NSBA's estimate
already receive nursing and other medical services. NSBA's estimate also
assumes there are 17,000 "medically fragile" children in the u.S. who
would be affected by the Supreme Court's decision; I don't know how many
of these children are comparable to the one in the Supreme Court case.

One significant factor driving the cost of medical services similar to
those required by the student in the Supreme Court case (e.g., urinary
catheterizations, tracheotomy cleanings) is the State-requirements on who
has to provide these services. Some States, such as Iowa, require nurses
to provide these services. Other States only require the person providing
these services to be supervised by a nurse (i.e., the person providing
these services would likely be less expensive than a nurse) .


