RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Jonathan H. Schnur ( CN=Jonathan H. Schnur/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 11-MAR-1999 13:26:49.00

SUBJECT:   q's for Elena on class size

TO: Elena Kagan     CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Tanya E. Martin ( CN=Tanya E. Martin/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Tanya and I have a few q's. While Lockhart is not giving a briefing today,
it sounds like we should get guidance to the press office here during the
day to use when they are asked questions. We're also trying to fugire out
when and what kind of srWe can work on each of the following, but wanted
to get your guidance.

1) Should we draft new press guidance on our reaction to the House ed-flex
vote? I assume our position is that we support the bill but that we need
to work in the Senate and conference committee to ensure that the class
size measure is included?

2) Should we draft a new statement from the President? We could a)
release a statement earlier in the day calling on the Senate to approve
the class size measure and making another strong statement against the
Jeffords amendments, or b) release a statement after the votes. Also,
should we include any kind of language about a veto threat in a statement?

3) Should someone call reporters with a new quote from the President or VP?
  This might help our chances of getting into stories written today.    (We
did try to get the VP to include a statement in his drug labeling event
this morning, but he questioned this when neither Ron nor I were in the
briefing.  Pat Ewing tried to persuade the VP to include it, but he was
concerned that it would disrupt the event and questioned whether it would
get covered. He did take a written statement with him to the podium but
then didn't deliver it .)

4) Should we draft new press guidance on whether the President would veto
the current House bill -- or the Senate bill without class size and with
Republican amendments -- if it comes to the president's desk. Again,
should we include language on a veto threat on this?


