RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Devorah R. Adler ( CN=Devorah R. Adler/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 15-MAR-1999 11:01:50.00

SUBJECT:   q&a for today

TO: Paul J. weinstein Jr.   ( CN=Paul J. weinstein Jr./OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Cathy R. Mays ( CN=Cathy R. Mays/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Sarah A. Bianchi ( CN=Sarah A. Bianchi/O=OVP @ OVP [ UNKNOWN 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Jeanne Lambrew ( CN=Jeanne Lambrew/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Q:      How do you respond to the GAO and CBOD,s contention that the
PresidentD,s Medicare proposal does not represent real reform?

A:      The President never claimed his proposal to dedicate surplus
dollars to improve the financial well being of the Medicare program
represents broader programmatic reform. In fact, in his State of the Union
address, he explicitly stated that we should both provide for the
necessary financing (as every independant analyst concurs) and work in a
bipartisan manner to develop a consensus on additional reforms to the
program. But in deference to a request by Senator Breaux and Congressman
Thomas not to include reforms in his budget, he explictly made the
decision to wait for the recommendations of the Commission. The fact of
the matter is that preparing the Medicare program for the 21st century
will require both additional revenue and reforms that will modernize the
program and make more competitve. This is not an either or proposition.

Q:      How do you respond to Senator BreauxD,s contention that the
White House should send a signal to its members that voting for the
CommissionD,s recommendation is critical to ensuring the prospects for
bipartisan consensus on Medicare reform?

A:      The President believes that a positive set of reforms to the
program will achieve bipartisan support. However, the President has
confidence in his appointees and has not and will not ask his
Commissioners to vote for something they do not believe will strengthen
the Medicare program; conversely, he will not ask them to vote against
something they believe will help the program.

Q:      What is the PresidentD,s response to the Patients Bill of Rights
legislation that will be marked up by the Senate Labor Committee this
Wednesday?

A:      We have not seen the details of the legislation Senator Jeffords
intends to mark up this Wednesday. All indications are that it will come
up far short of what is necessary to meet the needs of patients in a
rapidly changing health care system. We understand that it will not cover


tens of millions of Americans; that it will not have a standard for
medical necessity that will ensure that HMOs cannot make arbitrary
coverage decisions; and it will have a wholly inadequate enforcement
mechanism to ensure that patient rights are real. It is our hope that
Senator Jeffords and the committee works towards passing a strong,
comprehensive, and bipartisan Patients Bill of Rights that the President
can sign.


