RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Devorah R. Adler ( CN=Devorah R. Adler/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:17-MAR-1999 10:43:12.00

SUBJECT:   here you go

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
I apologize about the mix-up -- here it is with your edits.

Devorah



 Q:     What is the PresidentO,s response to the PatientsO, Bill of
Rights legislation that will be marked up by the Senate Labor Committee
this Wednesday?

A:      We have not seen the details of the legislation Senator Jeffords
intends to mark up this Wednesday, but all indications are that it will
fall far short of what is necessary to meet the needs of patients in a
rapidly changing health care system. We understand that it will not cover
tens of millions of Americans; that it will not have a standard to prevent
HMOs from making arbitrary coverage decisions; and that it will have a
wholly inadequate mechanism to enforce patientsO, rights. This helps
explains why every major patient, doctor, and nurse advocacy organization
has concluded that the Chairman's mark is flawed and falls fall short of
what is needed to protect patients.

        Senator Kennedy and the rest of the Committee Democrats are
planning on offering amendments that, if passed, would make this
legislation acceptable to the President.  It is our hope that Senator
Jeffords and the rest of the Committee works towards passing a strong,
comprehensive, and bipartisan Patients Bill of Rights that the President
can sign.   Today represents the first test of this new Congress to see if
it is serious about patient protections.   (This is the first Committee
mark-up on the Patients' Bill of Rights in this Congress). The President
is urging that the Committee to do everything it can to pass this test
with flying colors.


