RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Devorah R. Adler ( CN=Devorah R. Adler/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:18-MAR-1999 11:36:23.00

SUBJECT:   PBOR q&a

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
here you go -- let me know if you need anything else.

Q:      What is the PresidentO,s response to the PatientsO, Bill of
Rights legislation that is presently being marked up by the Senate Labor
Committee?

A:      We have not seen the details of the legislation Senator Jeffords
intends to mark up today, but all indications are that it will fall far
short of what is necessary to meet the needs of patients in a rapidly
changing health care system. We understand that it will not cover tens of
millions of Americans; that it will not have a standard to prevent HMOs
from making arbitrary coverage decisions; and that it will have a wholly
inadequate mechanism to enforce patientsO, rights. This helps explains
why every major patient, doctor, and nurse advocacy organization has
concluded that the Chairman's mark is flawed and will not adequately
protect patients.
                                 ·
Clearly, we are disappointed that the Democratic subsitute bill did not
receive a majority vote. However, we believe that this legislation can,
must, and will be improved as the legislative process proceeds. Today and
tomorrow there will be a number of strengthening amendments to the
underlying ChairmanO,s mark which we hope will receive consideration.
Regardless we agree with Senators Daschle and Kennedy that this bill will
be improved on the Senate floor when the entire public is focused on a
debate of the issues at stake.


