RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Edward W. Correia ( CN=Edward W. Correia/OU=WHO/O=EOP [ WHO 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:18-MAR-1999 12:45:15.00

SUBJECT:   Re: Single Sex Education and Admissions

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Peter Rundlet ( CN=Peter Rundlet/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Charles F. Ruff ( CN=Charles F. Ruff/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
         You asked me where the agencies are on single sex and college
admissions. On the single sex issue, ED is delaying action on all three
tracks -- the NYC Leadership School investigation, their modifications to
Title IX regs, and their response to Hutchinson's amendment -- until it
receives legal and policy guidance. They asked OLC for its views and OLC
has been analyzing the constitutional issues for several months. As I
mentioned, Chuck would like to meet on both this and the admissions issue
with a group similar to the one at the earlier meeting -- DOJ (I suppose
including OLC) as well as ED's General Counsel and anyone else you want to
include.

        On college admissions, the main investigation is the University of
California law school. OCR's drift seems to be against a formal complaint,
either administrative or judicial, though the possibility remains that
there could be some type of voluntary settlement. That, in turn, could
(and in my view probably would) be viewed as a broader statement of
adminstration policy on the use of standardized tests in admissions. It is
worth discussing alternatives to enforcement action, such as elevating the
Administration's message to encourage a more individualized approach to
admissions. On a related issue, the recent case involving the NCAA's Prop.
16 standard will be appealed to the Third Circuit. We have the opportunity
to file an amicus on two issues -- the coverage of the NCAA under Title VI
and the challenge to the standardized test. I think the first issue is
easy -- we should get involved -- the second issue is much harder. That is
worth discussing, too.


