       RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

       CREATOR: June Shih ( CN=June Shih/OU=WHO/O=EOP [ WHO 1 )

       CREATION DATE/TIME: 19-MAR-1999 14:37:40.00

       SUBJECT:   radio draft

      TO: Loretta M. Ucelli ( CN=Loretta M. Ucelli/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
      READ:UNKNOWN

      TO: Ann F. Lewis ( CN=Ann F. Lewis/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO: Leanne A. Shimabukuro ( CN=Leanne A. Shimabukuro/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO: Tracy Pakulniewicz ( CN=Tracy Pakulniewicz/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
      READ:UNKNOWN

      TO: Ruby Shamir ( CN=Ruby Shamir/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
      READ:UNKNOWN

      TO: Jose Cerda III ( CN=Jose Cerda III/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
      READ:UNKNOWN

      TEXT:
      Draft 3/19/99 2:30 pm
      Shih
      PRESIDENT WILLIAM J. CLINTON
      RADIO ADDRESS ON GUN DIRECTIVE
      THE WHITE HOUSE
      MARCH 20, 1999

              Good Morning. Today I want to talk to you about the next
      important steps we can take to rid our streets of gun violence and to make
      AmericaD,s communities even safer for our families.  I am very proud to be
      joined in the Oval Office by Attorney General Janet Reno, Treasury
      Undersecretary Jim Johnson, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms
      Director John McGaw, as well as some of the law enforcement officials who
      are leading this fight in communities all across America.

              Over the past six years, we have worked hard to fight crime
      putting in place a strategy of more prevention, stricter enforcement and
      tougher punishment. WeD,ve made it possible for 11,000 communities to put
      more than 92,000 new police officers on the beat; taken more criminals and
      deadly assault weapons off the street, and with Brady background checks,
      stopped more than a quarter of a million handguns from falling into the
      hands of convicted felons.

              As a result, the crime rate has dropped by more than 20 percent --
      to the lowest level in a generation.  Gun crimes have declined by more
      than.a quarter. Gun murders have fallen by a third.  Slowly, but surely,
      neighborhoods once abandoned to the crack of gunfire and the wail of


ambulance sirens are coming alive with the sounds of children playing
freely in the streets.

        This is indeed encouraging news.  But we must do more.  Every day,
93 people are killed -- and another 240 are injured -- by gunfire.  While
the numbers are declining, any story of a child caught in the crossfire of
gang shootout, or a police officer struck down by a criminalD,s bullet, or
a store clerk murdered in a robbery is one tragedy too many.

        That is why today I am directing Attorney General Reno and
Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin to develop a comprehensive strategy to
reduce gun violence in America even further.  I am asking them to work
closely with local, state and federal law enforcement officials -- and to
report back to me with a plan to take proven local strategies to fight gun
crime -- increasing the prosecution of gun criminals, targeting D&hot
spotsD8 and shutting down illegal gun markets, and keeping closer tabs on
gun offenders on probation -- nationwide.

        Strategies such as Richmond, VirginiaD,s Project Exile.   Under the
leadership of u.S. Attorney Helen Fahey, Project Exile has sent a strong
message to would-be gun criminals all across the city; If you use a gun to
commit a crime, youD,re going to prison.  Project Exile has taken hundreds
of gun criminals off the street by taking their cases to federal court,
where stiff sentences are mandatory and bail is less likely. As a result,
gun murders are down by a remarkable 41 percent.


        After six years of hard work, America is winning the war against
crime. But we canD,t quite declare victory yet.    We must keep more guns
from falling into the wrong hands by requiring background checks at gun
shows and banning juvenile offenders from owning guns for life. We must
hire more ATF agents and more federal prosecutors to crack down on gun
criminals. And I ask you to support our 21st Century Policing Initiative
to give law enforcement the manpower, the high tech tools, and prevention
strategies they need to keep us safe. Unfortunately, the Republicans in
Congress are threatening to decimate this crucial initiative. That would
be a big mistake.

        We must move forward in our fight for safer streets and safer
families.  Let no one rest until community in America is safe from crime
and violence. Thanks for listening.


