RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL·   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Devorah R. Adler ( CN=Devorah R. Adler/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:22-MAR-1999 11:10:57.00

SUBJECT:

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Q:      Today, HHS released guidance clarifying that states with joint
applications for TANF and Medicaid are required to furnish Medicaid
applications immediately upon request and process the applications without
delay. Is this an attempt to compensate for the drop in Medicaid
enrollment caused by welfare reform?

A:       No. It is to ensure that the statutory requirements of the law
are followed to ensure that former AFDC recipients and their children do
not lose their Medicaid eligibility as they are moving from welfare to
work. It is important to recall that the President vetoed two flawed
welfare reform bills that did not guarantee Medicaid coverage to all
adults and children who would have been eligible prior to the lawO,s
passage. The guidance that we released today is just the latest of our
efforts to work with states to ensure that working families moving off
cash assistance programs still get Medicaid benefits.

Q:      WasnO,t the Administration investigating New York City for
violating Federal rules about immediate processing of Medicaid
applications? Is this guidance targeted at them?

HHS has been working with New York City for several months to ensure that
their Medicaid program is serving all qualified applicants, as required by
law. In late January, a New York district court issued a temporary
restraining order against the city for failing to follow Federal Medicaid
enrollment requirements, and has required the city to develop a plan for
coming into compliance with current statute. However, the situation in New
York is not the reason we released this guidebook. Our goal is to do
everything possible to maximize both the number of people with health
insurance and the number of people moving from welfare to work.


