RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Irene Bueno ( CN=Irene Bueno/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:25-MAR-1999 18:04:07.00

SUBJECT:   Follow up to Immigration meeting

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

Irene Bueno ( CN=Irene Bueno/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Elena -

I would like to follow up with you on the Immigration meeting and to try
to explain what I have been doing these last 4 weeks and why I hesitated
about the schedule of meetings over the next two weeks.

First,  I want you to know that I am fully committed to this job and know
that I am capable of doing a good job but I know that I can and should do
better. During the last 4-1/2 weeks in addition to learning new systems,
meeting and calling key staff, and learning many new issues,  I have been
working to develop policies; to identify issues that require policy
development; to hold meetings; do research; etc. but certainly I could
have done more and I will do more and stay on top of policy issues in my
area.   For the upcoming meetings on immigration proposals, I will prepare
a document that outlines policy proposals on NACARA, Late Amnesty, and
Criminal Detention. On battered immigrants, I succeeded in convincing DOJ
to include battered immigrant provisions in the crime bill and I am
negotiating with them which proposals will be in the bill.

The reason I hesitated about the schedule of the meetings over the next
two weeks is that I will be on leave.  I had discussed this with Bruce
when I arrived and had sent both of you a reminder e-mail earlier today.
I apologize if this a surprise to you and for the problems that this
causes but as I mentioned earlier, I will do everything I can to prepare
materials for the upcoming meetings and when I return I will do more to
stay on top of policy issues in my area.

You and I are scheduled to meet on Friday at 2 pm.  If you have time to
speak to night, I will be in my office all evening.

 Thank you.

                                Irene


