RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Mary L. Smith ( CN=Mary L. Smith/OU=OPO/O=EOP [ OPO 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:25-MAR-1999 18:49:20.00

SUBJECT:   Ag Update

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Thomas L. Freedman ( CN=Thomas L. Freedman/OU=OPO/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Sally Katzen held a meeting on the farm safety net today.   There were two
major issues:

(1) The President is thinking about doing an agricultural event on April
5.   Podesta wants a memo by tomorrow on initiatives the President could
announce at that time. Sally is putting together a memo that outlines two
options:   (a) $2.5 billion in crop insurance that is paid for by offsets
in USDA (mainly through AMTA payments); and (b) a farm safety net wish
list totalling $3.9 billion that is not paid for.   The wish list would
consist of crop insurance ($2.5 billion), income support payments ($1.1
billion); additional conservation programs (200 million); and extension of
the dairy price support program for two years ($100 million). On the
second item, Greg Frazier thought it would be a non-starter for
Republicans, that House Democrats would be mixed, and that Senate
Democrats would like it.

(2) Daschle wanted to introduce a bill today that would provide funding
for the temporary workers that are processing agricultural loan payments.
USDA said that they will run out of funding for these workers in the next
4-6 weeks, but that they can redistribute money from September to keep
these workers.  Elgie Holstein and Greg Frazier called Daschle to let him
know that he did not have to introduce the bill.


