  RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL        (NOTES MAIL)

  CREATOR: Mary L. Smith ( CN=Mary L. Smith/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

  CREATION DATE/TIME: 7-APR-1999 18:39:13.00

  SUBJECT:     hate crimes story

  TO: Richard Socarides ( CN=Richard Socarides/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
  READ:UNKNOWN

  TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
  READ:UNKNOWN

  TO: Caroline R. Fredrickson ( CN=Caroline R.       Fredrickson/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1
  READ:UNKNOWN

  TO: Edward W. Correia ( CN=Edward W. Correia/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
  READ: UNKNOWN

  TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
  READ:UNKNOWN

  TEXT:
  Hate Crimes Bill Fate Uncertain

                               By DARLENE SUPERVILLE Associated Press Writer

                               WASHINGTON (AP)    -- Legislation that would
  broaden the
                               federal hate crimes law by including offenses
  based on sexual
                               orientation faces an uncertain future despite
  President Clinton's
                               call for lawmakers to pass it this year.

                              A similar bill, which Clinton also pushed, died
  in the last
                               Congress. Neither the House nor the Senate or
  any of the
                               appropriate committees voted on it.

                              The White House and other supporters hope public
  outrage
                              over recent well-publicized hate crimes will
  help advance the
                              measure this time around.

                              But opposition, however, appears so strong that
  a lead
                               sponsor, Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., doubts
  whether Congress
                              will approve it.

                               "We have to face the reality that it's a very
  tough sell, ' ,
                              Specter, a former local prosecutor, said in an
  interview
                              Wednesday.     "After a while you can develop a
  majority (of


                          votes) but I think we're a long way from it."

                          Senate Judiciary Committee hearings are expected
later this
                          month.

                          At a White House ceremony Tuesday, Clinton said
Congress
                          should pass the bill this year and "send a
message to ourselves
                          and to the world that we are going into 21st
century determined
                          to preach and to practice what is right.' ,

                          The Hate Crimes Prevention Act would add
disability, gender
                          and sexual orientation to federal anti-bias laws
and make it
                          easier for the Justice Department to investigate
and prosecute
                          such offenses.

                          Current law prohibits crimes based on race,
color, religion or
                          national origin.

                          Eight state have no hate crimes laws. Laws in 21
states cover
                          sexual orientation, 22 state laws include gender
and 21 cover
                          disability.

                          Richard Socarides, Clinton's civil rights
adviser, said the White
                          House was more optimistic this time because of
public
                          sentiment over the killings and the upcoming
Senate hearings.

                          "The signs are better than ever before, "     he
said.

                          David Smith, spokesman for the Human Rights
Campaign, a
                          gay and lesbian political advocacy group, cited
a Gallup poll,
                          conducted in mid-February, that found that 70
percent of the
                          public favors having a hate crimes law in their
state.

                          "We would be very happy for there to be no need
for this
                          legislation, "   he said.

                          Some opponents believe federal intervention is
unnecessary,
                          because states already are prosecuting
allegations of hate
                          crimes, and discriminatory. Social


    conservatives, meanwhile,
                                view the bill as creating special protections
    for gays.

                                "By including hate crimes enhancement for some
    groups, the
                                message is that the government cares more about
    those victims
                                than other people, "   said Robert H. Knight,
    senior director for
                                cultural studies at the conservative Family
    Research council.

                                Among the recent hate-crime cases:

                                -- In Texas, white supremacist John William King
    was
                                sentenced to death in February for dragging
    James Byrd Jr.,
                                who was black, to his death behind a pickup
    truck in June
                                1998. Two other men await trial in the slaying.

                                -- In Wyoming, Russell Henderson, one of two
    young men
                                charged in the beating death of Matthew Shepard,
    a gay
                                college student, pleaded guilty Monday to murder
    and was
                                sentenced to two consecutive life terms in
    prison.

                                -- In Alabama, two men face murder charges in
    the Feb. 19
                                killing of Billy Jack Gaither, who was gay.
    Police say he was
                                beaten with an ax handle and burned to death
    because he
                                allegedly made a pass at one of the men.

                                D#AP-NY-04-07-99 1523EDT


