RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD I

CREATION DATE/TIME: 13-APR-1999 11:37:08.00

SUBJECT:   WtW and Census Funding

TO: Elena Kagan     CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD I
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO I )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD I )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Andrea Kane ( CN=Andrea Kane/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD I
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Timing
DOL is pushing us to give legislative language to Cardin by the end of the
week.  I tend to agree that -- after urging Cardin to take a leading role
-- we can't keep him holding any longer.  If Cardin introduces the bill
early next week it will be public for a week before the W&M hearing, thus
giving groups and other tesifiers a chance to comment on it at the
hearing.

What are the odds we'll have a decision by week's end?

Barbara Chow thinks if we don't have an overall decision on how to pay for
the Census, we could go ahead, warning Labor and Cardin that we may
propose a WtW budget cut later. Seems awkward but certainly less awkward
than not telling anyone. Needless to say I think cutting back on the $1
billion is very very awkward so I'd support any other possible candidates
if possible.

Where to   Cut

OMB's idea is to not fund any competitive grants in FY 2000, thus keeping
the formula grants about the same as we proposed in the budget. We think
this is a bit goofy -- we have tremendous demand for the competitive
grants (over 1,400 applications of which we've only funded 126 so far),
while states are saying they don't necessarily need the formula $$. We'd
rather keep the competitive grant funds at about $250 million and lower
the formula grant amount.  If, say, 10 states don't come in for formula $$
we could redistribute those funds to the remaining 40 states. What do you
think?


