RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Mary L. Smith ( CN=Mary L. Smith/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD I )

CREATION DATE/TIME:13-APR-1999 13:27:13.00

SUBJECT:   Fourth Affirmative Defense

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD I    )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Thomas L. Freedman ( CN=Thomas L. Freedman/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD I )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD I )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO I )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Here is a minor change to the Fourth Affirmative Defense under the Equal
Pay Act, which Daschle and the women's groups would like to add.   NEC,
CEA, EEOC, and the women's groups have signed off on the following.     If
you are OK with it, I will send it to Daschle today.  Daschle's staff has
been very anxious to get it now that they are back in session.   Thanks,
Mary

4-12-99
Proposed Change to Fourth Affirmative Defense under the Equal Pay Act

The current statute lays out three specific exceptions (affirmative
defenses) to the prohibition against wage disparities, by allowing
disparities when payment is based on a seniority system, a merit system,
or a system which measures earnings by quantity or quality of production.
Right now, the fourth defense is a catch-all.  It provides for an
exception to the prohibition against gender-based wage disparities if the
differential is O&base~ on any other factor other than sex.~8

The womenO,s groups and DaschleO,s staff would like to limit this fourth
affirmative defense to pay differences that  (1) are job-related; (2)
concern a legitimate business interest; (3) were actually used in setting
the wages; and (4) are not the result of sex discrimination.


4-13-99

The following language is proposed:

O&Except where payment is made pursuant to:

 (iv) a differential based on a bona fide factor other than sex, such as
education, training or experience, provided that this defense shall be
available only if:
(a) the factor causing the wage differential is (1) job related for the
position in question or (2) serves a legitimate business purpose unless
the employee demonstrates an alternative employment practice that would
serve the same purpose without producing such differential and the
employer refuses to adopt such alternative employment practice;
(b) such a factor was actually applied and used reasonably in light of the
,.
 asserted justification; and . the employee fails to demonstrate that the
 differential produced by reliance on the factor is itself the result of
 sex discrimination by the employer.OS

 [pick up with further provisio that an employer paying a wage rate
 differential in violation of this subsection shall not, in order to comply
 with the provision of this subsection, reduce the wage of any employee]


