         RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (NOTES MAIL)

         CREATOR: Jordan Tamagni    ( CN=Jordan Tamagni/OU=WHO/O=EOP [ WHO 1 )

         CREATION DATE/TIME: 16-APR-1999 11:07:08.00

         SUBJECT:   Revised Radio

         TO: Caroline R. Fredrickson ( CN=Caroline R.   Fredrickson/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1
         READ:UNKNOWN

         TO: Christopher C. Jennings ( CN=Christopher C.    Jennings/OU=OPD/O~EOP   @ EOP [ OPD 1
         READ:UNKNOWN

         TO: Jose Cerda III ( CN=Jose Cerda III/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD    1 )
         READ:UNKNOWN

         TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
         READ:UNKNOWN

         TO: Sarah A. Bianchi ( CN=Sarah A. Bianchi/O=OVP @ OVP [ UNKNOWN 1 )
         READ:UNKNOWN

         TO: Leanne A. Shimabukuro ( CN=Leanne A. Shimabukuro/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
         READ: UNKNOWN

         TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP    [ OPD 1 )
         READ:UNKNOWN

         TO: Loretta M. Ucelli ( CN=Loretta M. Ucelli/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
         READ: UNKNOWN

         TEXT:
         Draft 4/16/99 11:00am
         Tamagni
         PRESIDENT WILLIAM J. CLINTON
         RADIO ADDRESS ON ELDER ABUSE
         DETROIT, MICHIGAN
         April 17, 1999

                 Good morning.  Of all the duties we owe to one another, our duty
         to our parents and grandparents is among the most sacred. Today I want to
         talk about the steps we must take to build a safety net for AmericaD,s
         seniors that cracks down on elder crime, fraud, and abuse.

                 For more than six years, we have worked hard to take back our
         streets from crime and give American families the security they need to
         thrive.  We have made remarkable progress, with violent crime dropping to
         its lowest levels in twenty-five years.

                 For elderly Americans who once locked themselves into their homes
         in fear, the falling crime rate has been a godsend.    But the greatest
         threat many older Americans face is not a criminal armed with a gun, but a
         telemarketing scam artist armed with a slick rap.   And for our most
         vulnerable seniors -- those who are sick or disabled and living in nursing
         homes -- there is no way to iock the door against abuse and neglect by the
         very people paid to care for them.

                 That is why the 21st Century Crime Bill I will send to Congress
         next month includes tough measures to target people who prey on elderly


Americans.

        First, we must take action against telemarketing fraud that robs
senior citizens of their life savings and endangers their well being.
Every year, illegal telemarketing operations bilk the American people of
an estimated $40 billion -- and more than half of the victims are over 50.

        Last year, I signed into law tough new penalties for telemarketing
fraud -- but we should take steps now to stop scam artists before they
have a chance to harm AmericaD,s senior citizens. My Crime Bill will give
the Justice Department new authority to terminate telephone service when
it finds evidence of an illegal telemarketing operation or a plan to start
one. This new law will send a message to telemarketers: if you prey on
older Americans, we will cut off your phone lines and shut you down.

        Second, we must take action against nursing home neglect and abuse
-- a practice that violates the law and the values we hold dear as a
nation.  We have already taken strong steps to put an end to nursing home
abuse, issuing the toughest regulations in history and stepping up
investigations of nursing homes suspected of neglect and abuse.

        But when reports show that one out of four nursing homes in
America still fail to provide quality care to their residents -- and when
people living in substandard nursing homes have as much to fear from abuse
and neglect as they do from the diseases of old age -- we know we must do
more.

        My Crime Bill gives the Justice Department new authority to
investigate, prosecute, and punish nursing homes operators who repeatedly
neglect and abuse their residents. With prison sentences of up to ten
years or more and fines of .up to $2 million, these new provisions make
clear that we will settle for nothing less than the highest quality care
in AmericaD,s nursing homes.

        Third, we must press on in our fight against health care fraud.
Every year, health care fraud costs American tax payers billions of
dollars -- $12.6 billion for Medicare fraud alone -- draining resources
from programs that provide vital care to senior citizens. As Vice
President Gore announced last month, my Crime Bill will allow the Justice
Department to take immediate action to stop false claims and illegal
kick-back schemes, and grant federal prosecutors new tools to tackle fraud
cases.

        Finally, we must do more to stop retirement plan rip-offs.  My
Crime Bill will toughen penalties for people who steal from pension and
retirement funds through embezzlement, bribery, and graft. To borrow a
line from Senator Leahy -- who is working closely with us to strengthen
the safety net for AmericaD,s seniors -- the only people who should benefit
from pensions are the people who worked a lifetime to build them.

        In all these ways, we will protect our parents and grandparents,
protect our values, and build a stronger America for 21st Century.

        Thanks for listening.
    [I




