RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Irene Bueno ( CN=Irene Bueno/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD I )

CREATION DATE/TIME:19-APR-1999 21:18:20.00

SUBJECT:   Kosovar Refugee processing and resettlement

TO: Elena Kagan     CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD I )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD I )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO I )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Today,   I attended an interagency meeting that Scott Busby chaired on
this issue that is expected to be discussed at a deputies meeting on
Tuesday.

This group had been tasked to develop options and make a recommendation as
to how and where Kosovar refugees should be processed.     It is proposed
to allow Kosovar refugees with family members residing in the US to be
admitted to the US as refugees.     First, the family member would identify
the refugee, then the refugee would need to meet certain admission
requirements   (security check, medical screening, etc).

The preferred option is to conduct the processing of refugees outside the
United States. The State Dept. is in informal discussion with Greece to
provide such a facility in Greece. A response is expected sometime
tomorrow.   If this doesn't work,  others options will be explored.   This
option would allow processing and final decision about a refugees status
to take place prior to entry to the US. The second option is to fly
refugees to an DOD facility in the US after they have passed initial
screening but their processing would continue at the DOD facil'ity
somewhere in the US (DOD is still looking at different sites).      The
last option is to bring refugees directly to the US, parole them into the
country, and conduct all processing in the US.

The issue of who will pay for such an operation is pending and agencies
will bring recommendations back to the interagency group.

Please let me know if you need further information about this issue.
EMAILS RECEIVED
ARMS - BOX 049 - FOLDER -005


[04/20/1999]
