RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Karin Kullman ( CN=Karin Kullman/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1

CREATION DATE/TIME:22-APR-1999 15:22:55.00

SUBJECT:   Message Meeting Issues

TO: Elena Kagan     CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Paul J. Weinstein Jr.   ( CN=Paul J. weinstein Jr./OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
The .following is a recap of some of the issues raised at this afternoon's
message meeting:

1. They are TENTATIVELY holding a slot on Monday for a small event or
congressional meeting on Safe & Drug Free Schools. Final decision to be
determined.

2.  ESEA -- This is currently slated for Tuesday, May~.   People thought
this might be a good day to do the event because it would start the week
off well. However, the House is completely closed on that day, and we
could not do the event here. DPC was asked to report back whether we
would prefer:
        a)  keep ESEA on Tuesday, May 4 (to start the week), but have an
off-site event
                                        OR
        b) move ESEA to Thursday, May 6, when we would be able to use the
House.

3.  Sally Katzen raised some school construction issues/ideas with Paul
after the meeting. Apparently, Rangel is willing to hold his bill if he
could do an event with us in the next couple of weeks.  Sally wondered
whether we would:
        a) want to combine this with Ed-Flex (which we told her we thought
we did not want to do)
                                OR
        b)  want to do a school construction event the same week as the
ESEA roll-out   (pending                that they would let us do 2
education events that week)

4. The issue of sending up the Gun Bill sometime next' week was raised,
but no decision or time slot was agreed upon.

5.  Karen Tramontano asked about the status of the Racial profiling EO,
and indicated they would like to do an event around this (they are looking
for some Executive Actions, things we can do without Congress).  We
indicated that this was still in the process.  Karen offered to help the
process along any way she could.  Paul indicated that was not necessary,
and we told them we would report back on possible timing/status.

6. Medicare -- The status of Medicare discussions was asked about.   Both
DPC and NEC indicated that we were still several weeks away from being
able to do anything on this.




Please call me if you have any questions or need clarification on any of
this. Thanks!


