RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Jonathan H. Schnur ( CN=Jonathan H. Schnur/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD I )

CREATION DATE/TIME:27-APR-1999 19:50:06.00

SUBJECT:   Today's mtg and ESEA issues

TO: Elena Kagan     CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD I   )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD I )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
A couple of points about today's discussion on Troops to Teachers and
alternative certification.

1) Alternative teacher certification. I am happy to get on the phone with
Wendy Kopp and someone from Education.   I just wanted you to Wendy was
very clear to me today that the current language would pose problems for'a
significant portion of her members.    Wendy would favor the kind of
language I included in my document (letting the state approve high-quality
alternative certification programs), but would be OK with a fall-back
extending the number of years before someone needed to be certified to
four years, or even three. Apparently, some of their alternative
certification programs (including with Bank Street College in NYC) take 3
or even four years. She also questions our whole focus on the need for
certification, since she doesn't believe this is the right way to make
sure we have quality teachers, but that's a broader issue than how this
bill affectsTeach for America.

2) Troops to Teachers. I think it's OK where we came out today, though I
would say that I think:

a) Education isn't going to try to sell this as Troops to Teachers, but
rather a mid-career professionals program.   I just think we need to watch
out for how this gets characterized in their press paper, etc.

b) It was important to get at least verbal agreement today that roughly
half of the funds would go to Troops to Teachers not only because the
language in the bill is very vague,  but Mike Smith said at the last mtg
with Barbara, Tanya, and me that only $1 million would go for troops to
teachers. The e-mail he shared today actually resulted from some phone
calls and e-mails I had with Education and Defense earlier in the day.


