  RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (NOTES MAIL)

  CREATOR: Maria Echaveste ( CN=Maria Echaveste/OU=WHO/O=EOP [ WHO 1 )

  CREATION DATE/TIME:28-APR-1999 18:18:44.00

  SUBJECT:   Race book

  TO: Gene B. Sperling ( CN=Gene B. Sperling/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
  READ: UNKNOWN

  TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP    [ OPD 1 )
  READ:UNKNOWN

  TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
  READ:UNKNOWN

  CC: Sarah Rosen ( CN=Sarah Rosen/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP    [ OPD 1 )
  READ: UNKNOWN

  CC: Todd Stern ( CN=Todd Stern/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1
  READ:UNKNOWN

  CC: Clara J. Shin ( CN=Clara J. Shin/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
  READ:UNKNOWN

  CC: Charles F. Ruff    ( CN=Charles F. Ruff/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
  READ:UNKNOWN

  CC: edley ( edley @ law.harvard.edu @ inet [ UNKNOWN 1 )
  READ:UNKNOWN

  CC: James T. Edmonds ( CN=James T. Edmonds/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1
  READ:UNKNOWN

  TEXT:
  Folks---I just realized that there may be some confusion re paragraph 1
  below--what I meant to convey was that because there's a dispute between
  the current draft on education and what we say on ESEA and what DPC and
  others believe we should be saying so we are consistent with what the
  President has said previously, , it would be helpful if DPC would put pen
  to paper--that way we could evaluate competing drafts, utlimately to hone
  in on the dispute for resolution, if necessary by the President.


          Folks:   the book team is nearing the end of its authorized
  assignment.   That is Terry and Liz will be leaving the project on 5/15.
  Because of this, Todd and I want to finish as much as we can in the next
  two weeks--our plan is to press forward to complete the agreed upon edits,
  have one or more drafting sessions on the disputed edits (which are not
  the big substantive issues), distill the substantive issues for
  presentation to president by 5/7. Accordingly, here's what we still need
  from you all:

  1. With respect to the education portion of the workplan chapter---I
  suspect that the most recent revisions will still not address the
  fundamental gap between what we have been saying re changes to ESEA and
  the book's focus on the "compact." So as to move things along, Todd and I
  discussed that it would be very helpful if DPC would draft that section of
  the chapter--this would help highlight the problem and shed some light on


  resolution.  For example, Bruce had expressed view that the esea
  discussion in last draft was a throwaway, short shrift reference--how can
  we make it more consistent.  We need by Friday, 4/30 because we are
  winnowing down issues by next week.

  2.  With respect to criminal justice and racial profiling: where is the
  options memo we discussed three weeks ago? We have the draft exec order
  received from doj and I know Elena had comments from Edley on policy
  question of an exec order on data collection or a different one--so can we
  get this by Friday, so issue can resolved?

  3.  Economic development--we have never received comments from Gene/nec on
  this or other parts of the latest version of the book. However, the book
  team has been working closely with treasury and sarah rosen (to some
  extent) on comments.  Todd has sent sarah and treasury the 4/2 draft of
  this section and we need your comments by end of week to determine whether
  here too is a policy dispute. Both Todd and I believe that we can resolve
  these issues after this last round.

  4.  On civil rights enforcement, especially resource comparability, Chuck
  has expressed concern re whether there has in fact been a policy decision
  on how far to push Title vi--we need to see the latest version of this
  section before deciding if there is a substantive decision.

  5.  One or more of you have argued that the book really does not say
  anything bold or new on race--Todd and I wonder whether it would be useful
  for a small group of you to meet with writing team to amplify those
  comments--or whether it would be better just to communicate the views in
  the cover memo to the president--we stand ready to listen to your
  suggestion. As for the comment that the book does not really have the
  President's voice, that it's either too social scientist or not in keeping
  with the way he has spoken before such as macomb cty; Todd and i think
  this is one where we really need the President's feedback, including his
  red pen.

  6.  The book team is making changes per mtgs with Todd--we need chapters
  to todd and me before we can sit down and work through the disputed
  language issues. We are willing to schedule drafting session for weekend,
  provided that we have in our hands chapters--we also think it is necessary
  to have redlined draft--it'll make the job easier--Clara will follow up
  with Terry and Christopher but our goal is to have a new version to the
  President with explanatory memo on substantive disputes and other comments
  by 5/7.
          WE NEED YOUR HELP----NOW!!!! THANKS TO ALL BECAUSE WE ARE GOING
  TO FINISH THIS PROJECT.


