RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. RicejOU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATEjTIME:13-MAY-1999 09:45:15.00

SUBJECT:   What happened last night on tobacco recoupment

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena KaganjOU=OPDjO=EOP   @   EOP [ OPD 1 .)
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura EmmettjOU=WHOjO=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. ReedjOU=OPDjO=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Devorah R. Adler ( CN=Devorah R. AdlerjOU=OPDjO=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Christopher C. Jennings    ( CN=Christopher C. Jennings/OU=OPO/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPO J
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Jeanne Lambrew ( CN=Jeanne LambrewjOU=OPDjO=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: J. Eric Gould ( CN=J. Eric GouldjOU=OPDjO=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
I couldn't put all the details in my pages last night, but here in a
nutshell is what happened.

Despite our urging none of our allies (Harkin, Specter, Obey) put forward
an amendment that could have won.  Working with Martha we worked all three
offices at several levels (staff directors, tobacco staff, approps staff)
but clearly to no avail.

First Specter proposed that the Senate recede to the House and (10 and
behold) this all or nothing approach failed.

Then Rogers proposed to have the House recede to the Senate and Obey
offered his long complicated version of 40 percent of the settlement for
health coverage plus tobacco.  There was much parliamentary manuvering and
lucky for us it was decided the Obey vote would happen first. And,
surprise surprise, the amendment failed.

In the meantime Martha Foley persuaded Young to prevent a vote on Rogers.
Young asked Rogers to withdraw his amendment and he did.  We had a
temporary reprieve.

The GOP committee chairs then met behind closed doors.  Around 10 the
conference re-convened and in their first order of business Young proposed
to have the House recede to the Senate and the motion passed by voice
vote.


