RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Stephen C. Warnath ( CN=Stephen C. Warnath/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:11-MAR-1997 13:15:06.00

SUBJECT:   naturalization and individuals with disabilities

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Diana Fortuna ( CN=Diana Fortuna/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Elena -- I am requesting your sign-off this afternoon on the disability
guidance so that INS can proceed with publishing the regulation with a
release date of March 18th. My recommendation is that you approve it. As
you know, the guidance states that those who do not demonstrate an
understanding of the nature of the oath during the interview will be
denied.  However, DOJ/INS has determined that notification of denial in an
individual case will not be made until Headquarters provides further
guidance on the proper process for denying these sensitive cases. This
guidance will be issued by mid-April. During this time INS will develop a
letter for this particular circumstance explaining why INS is constrained
to denying the application and probably involve some supplemental training
of field officers.   Part of INS' briefing to Congress and interested
parties and groups will be to explain this so that any potential criticism
of this approach should be minimized.

Dennis Hayashi, who leads HHS implementation, has now recommended to the
Secretary that she approve this approach. As a say, this is my
recommendation as well.  Based upon my conversations with Diana and our
understanding of why these cases will be held until April, I believe that
she supports this recommendation.  (Diana, correct me if I am wrong.)


So please let me know and I will pass the word on so that INS can dot its
i's and cross its t's today.

thanks


