         RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL      (NOTES MAIL)

         CREATOR: Barry J. Toiv ( CN=Barry J. Toiv/OU=WHO/O=EOP [ WHO 1 )

         CREATION DATE/TIME:20-MAY-1999 09:08:09.00

         SUBJECT:   Clinton Education Plan Denounced

         TO: Elena Kagan      CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
         READ: UNKNOWN

         TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
         READ: UNKNOWN

         TEXT:
         Clinton Education Plan Denounced

                                       By ANJETTA McQUEEN AP Education Writer

                                       WASHINGTON (AP)   -- A Clinton administration
         proposal to
                                       phase out uncertified teachers and limit the
         role of teachers'
                                       aides drew a host of objections from educators
         who said more,
                                       not less, help is needed in schools. One
         Republican lawmaker
                                       said the White House was meddling in local
         school affairs.

                                       A $15 billion   Elementa~y   and Secondary Education
         Act
                                       unveiled Wednesday would make participating
         school districts
                                       do away with the practice of "emergency
         certification, "    through
                                       which teachers teach subjects such as math or
         English in which
                                       they have not been certified by the state. It
         also would end the
                                       practice of allowing teachers' aides to
         supervise classrooms on
                                       their own.

                                       "America's public schools are going to rise and
         fallon the
                                       quality of their teachers, "     Education Secretary
         Richard Riley
                                       said, adding that schools in poorer districts
         rely too heavily on
                                       aides to instruct students.

                                       Educators and lawmakers attacked the proposal.

                                       "Holding us accountable without providing us
         the assistance to
                                       achieve these goals puts everybody in a very
         difficult bind, "    said
                                       Mike Casserly of the Council of Great City
         Schools, adding
'.


                                that most new teachers choose suburban posts
     with better pay
                                and working conditions over urban ones. "We're
     going to need
                                substantially more help than there is in the
     bill. "

                                The plan to renew the act also would require
     states and school
                                districts to reduce class size, turn around
     failing schools, issue
                                report cards to parents on how schools are
     doing, set strict
                                academic and classroom discipline standards and
     end the
                                practice of promoting children who are not
     academically ready
                                by helping them with more after-school and
     summer programs.

                                The act, on average, provides about 7 percent of
     states'
                                education spending. Poorer schools, however,
     tend to get a
                                larger share.

                                Republicans said the Clinton proposal, first
     made in his State of
                                the Union address in January, runs counter to
     their efforts to
                                ensure local control of schools.

                                "This is a classic example of the
     administration trying to
                                mandate national solutions to local problems, ' ,
     said Rep. Bill
                                Goodling, R-Pa., chairman of the House Education
     and
                                Workforce Committee, which is crafting its
     version of the
                                legislation. "Without federal mandates, these
     new requirements
                                are already being carried out by states and
     local school
                                districts. ' ,

                                Marshall Smith, a Riley deputy, said teachers'
     unions support
                                the teacher-quality proposals.

                                "They have given the districts room and time to
     make this
                                happen by phasing it in,"   said Sandra Feldman
     of the American
                                Federation of Teachers, adding that the aides
     should not be
                                eliminated. "Working under the supervision of a
     classroom
                                teacher and properly trained, they can be very
     helpful. But they
 .,

                      are not teachers, "   she said.

                      But Kati Haycock of the Education Trust, a
Washington-based
                      nonprofit group promoting academic achievement,
said,
                      --Parents want -- and children need -- highly
qualified teachers
                      now. We can't afford ... teachers who are on a
three-year road
                      to certification."

                      States would be able to apply their various
teacher
                      certifications under the Clinton proposal, said
Mary Jean
                      LeTendre', who oversees the Education Department's
                      administration of funds for poor students.

                      In the 1996-97 school year, almost as many
teachers' aides
                      (52,714) as teachers (61,252) were funded by the
federal
                      government. Education Department surveys found
that 41
                      percent of aides at participating schools spent
at least half of
                      their time in the classroom without a teacher
present.

                      Also a third of the nation's teachers said they
either lacked
                      degrees in the subjects they teach or did not
spend enough time
                      training in them.

                      Urban districts have some of the greatest need,
often two and
                      half times the vacancies of other districts.
About three-fourths
                      of those districts have to rely on noncertified
teachers to teach
                      under emergency licenses, long-term substitute
teachers,
                      teachers with provisional licenses and
internships or
                      apprenticeships. But nearly half offer programs
to prepare aides
                      for licensed teaching positions.

                      O#AP-NY-OS-20-99 0728EDT
    .f




