RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Barbara Chow ( CN=Barbara Chow/OU=OMB/O=EOP [ OMB 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 3-JUN-1999 13:21:47.00

SUBJECT:   Synopsis of Teacher Empowerment Act

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Wei-Min C. Wang ( CN=Wei-Min C. Wang/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
FYI: Attached is a brief description of Congressman McKeon's teacher
training proposal. Note that it probably eliminates funding for the
National Board for Professional Teaching Standards (remember that fight?),
weakens our class size proposal, and is less targeted and accountable than
O\lr proposal.
---------------------- Forwarded by Barbara Chow/OMB/EOP on 06/03/99 01:19
PM ---------------------------




Wei-Min C. Wang
06/03/99 11:57:47 AM
Record Type:    Record

To:      Barbara Chow/OMB/EOP@EOP
cc:      Iratha H. Waters/OMB/EOP@EOP, Barry White/OMB/EOP@EOP, Leslie
S. Mustain/OMB/EOP@EOP
Subject:         Synopsis of Teacher Empowerment Act

In general, the McKeon proposal (H.R. 1995, the Teacher Empowerment Act)
reauthorizes the Title II Eisenhower Professional Development program,
broadens its scope by incorporating other teacher quality activities, and
consolidates it with Goals 2000 and Class Size Reduction into a single
teacher quality block grant. It also reauthorizes Reading Excellence with
an authorization of appropriations of $260 million in FY 2001 (less than
our request of $286 million in FY 2000) and such sums in subsequent years.

In a May 26 "Dear Colleague" letter in support of the Administration's
ESEA proposal, Clay, Kildee, and Martinez said the following about the
McKeon proposal:

Recently, Republicans sent out a "Dear Colleague" touting legislation
called the "Teacher Empowerment Act". They claim to support a class size
reduction initiative within their bill. In fact, the bill fails to
designate any specific amount of funding for class size reduction, nor
requires states to initiate class size reduction efforts. The Republican
bill tries to take funds allocated for class size reduction so they may be
used for other purposes, without any accountability or oversite.

Our summary follows.


Allocations. The proposal would distribute distribute funps to States on
the same basis as our own proposal and the current Eisenhower program, on
a 50-50 student count/poverty count basis. However, within-State
allocation procedures differ significantly. The Administration's proposal
is more targeted in two senses: (1) Half of LEA subgrant funds are
competitive in our Title II proposal, but only 20 percent are under the
McKeon proposal; and (2) we base LEA formula allocations purely on poverty
counts, whereas the McKeon program would use a 50-50 formula, as is
current practice in Eisenhower. Our proposal also provides more funding
for State-level activities, up to 10 percent of its grant, of which no
more than 1/3 can be used for administration. McKeon provides 2.5 percent
for State activities, of which only 5 percent can be used for
administration. This is potentially problematic, given the large scope of
State responsibilities.

State/local activities. For the most part, McKeon's bill would fund State
and local activities to improve teacher quality that are very similar to
our own (professional development, induction/mentoring for new teachers) .
They differ significantly, however, on issues that relate less directly to
teacher quality: (1) McKeon's bill would require an unspecified portion of
funds to be used to hire teachers for the purposes of class size reduction
or special ed hiring (this would be explicitly waivable); (2) our proposal
allows continued development and implementation of State standards and
assessments, consistent with the consolidated Goals 2000 program, while
McKeon's doesn't; and (3) our proposal allows development and acquisition
of certain curricular materials and instructional aids, consistent with
the consolidation of Title VI, while McKeon's doesn't (although we can
probably assume that the Republicans would retain Title VI in its current
form). McKeon's proposal also permits various recruitment activities
(signing bonuses, alternative certification routes, etc.) on the local
level; we allow these at the State level only, to preserve a professional
development focus on the local level. McKeon introduces the concept of
"teacher opportunity payments" as an allowable local activity, under which
teachers can get vouchers to shop for professional development on their
own, independent of LEAs, so long as those activities meet certain quality
requirements. Furthermore, McKeon's proposal is more explicit about
funding activities that will incite the unions, such as tenure reform,
competency testing (not just for new teachers), merit pay, and getting rid
of incompetent teachers.

Accountability. McKeon's proposal requires States to broadly disseminate
through report cards or otherwise (1) the percentage of classes taught by
out-of-field teachers and (2) the average statewide class size. This
concept of public accountability is substantially weaker than what we
propose in the Education Accountability Act, which contains more useful
indicators and disaggregates data at the student, school, and district
levels, too. Performance indicators are key accountability elements in
both proposals. Our proposal would allow States to terminate formula and
competitive subgrants to LEAs that fail to make substantial progress on
the Secretary's performance indicators. McKeon would require persistently
low-performing LEAs to turn professional development funds over to
teachers in the form of "teacher opportunity payments." Our indicators are
determined by the Secretary, while McKeon's are State-determined. However,
McKeon's State indicators must include student achievement and
out-of-field teachers; we are not so specific, nor would ED likely use
student achievement as an indicator.

National activities. McKeon's proposal would eliminate the Secretary's
flexible authority to carry out research and innovative projects to
improve teacher quality, such as a recruitment job bank,


Teach-for-America-like programs, principal training, etc. National
activities would be constrained to funding "Teacher Excellence Academies"
in schools to promote alternative certification and model professional
development, Troops-to-Teachers, the National Writing Project, and the
Eisenhower National Clearinghouse. McKeon's general provisions would also
prohibit any "national teacher test or certification." Combined with the
elimination of the flexible authority, this would probably prevent funding
for the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards.

Also attached here for your information is the Department's own informal
assessment of McKeon's proposal.

 - AnalysisOfTeacherEmpowermentActForDems.doc




==================== ATTACHMENT   1 ====================
ATT CREATION TIME/DATE:   0 00:00:00.00

TEXT:
Unable to convert ARMS_EXT: [ATTACH.D9]ARMS20875316A.136 to ASCII,
 The following is a HEX DUMP:

DOCF11EOA1B11AE1000000000000000000000000000000003E000300FEFF090006000000000000
0000000000010000003200000000000000001000003400000001000000FEFFFFFF000000003100
OOOOFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF
FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF
FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF
FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF
FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF
FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF
FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF
FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF
FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF
FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF
FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF
FFFFFFFFFFECA5C1004700090400000012BF000000000000100000000000040000DB1EOOOOOEOO
                                                                   Hex-Dump Conversion

                ANALYSIS OF TEACHER ENPOWERMENT ACT

·   Weakens the national effort to reduce class size in the early elementary grades.
    The proposal would incorporate aspects of the current Class Size Reduction
    program, but, by failing to provide separate, dedicated funding for this initiative,
    would put an end to the Federal commitment, enacted on a bipartisan basis through
    the 1999 appropriations act, to help all school districts reduce class sizes in grades
    1-3 to an average of 18. In addition to failing to provide dedicated funding for
    class-size reduction, the proposal would not focus on reducing class size in the
    early elementary grades, the grades in which research has demonstrated the
    effectiveness of small classes in improving student achievement.

·   Does not support the advancement of standards-based reforms. The Teacher
    Empowerment Act would not provide support for such activities as the refinement
    and development of State content and student performance standards, and curricula
    and assessments aligned with those standards. Continuation of these types of
    activities is essential if teachers are to make high standards a reality in every
    classroom. As the GAO found in a recent report, Federal support for systemic
    reforms has been instrumental in driving educational reforms in States and school
    districts. The bill would end that support.

·   Ends Federal support for the National Board for Professional Teaching
    Standards. The bill would prohibit the Secretary from using Federal funds to
    support the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards (NBPTS). The
    NBPTS establishes rigorous standards for what accomplished teachers should know
    and be able to do and operates a national voluntary system to assess and certify
    teachers who meet these standards. Eventually, the NBPTS hopes to certify
    105,000 teachers by the year 2006, one for every school in the country. Federal
    funds support the development of certification standards and assessments, as well
    as activities designed to enable more teachers to undertake the assessments. This is
    an example of an activity where a limited amount of Federal funding can leverage
    significant non-Federal resources and have a national impact. It should continue.

·   Fails to hold States, districts, and schools accountable for improving student
    achievement. The accountability provisions in the proposal are vague and
    confusing and would be difficult to enforce, if they are enforceable at all. In
    addition, the bill would require States to take action to improve or terminate local
    programs that are not "research-based" or fail to raise student achievement. But as
    the proposal is drafted, it would be almost impossible to determine if a program is
    research-based or is improving student achievement. Moreover, States would be
    given almost no resources for carrying out accountability responsibilities.

    The bill is also inadequate in the area of "public accountability." States would be
    required to report publicly on out-of-field teachers and on class sizes, but not on
    other topics of importance to parents, policy-makers, and the general public.
                                                                              Management System
                                                              Hex-Dump Conversion

·   Does not target funds effectively. The proposal would target 80 percent of the
    funds available to local districts by a formula based 50 percent on the number of
    poor children served by the district and 50 percent on district enrollment. The
    remaining 20 percent of the funds would be awarded competitively, but the
    proposal fails to specify any type of criteria for competitive funding. These criteria
    would not target funds sufficiently on high-need districts. By contrast, the
    Administration's proposal would award 50 percent of the funds available to local
    districts by a formula based entirely on poverty. The remaining funds would be
    awarded competitively, primarily to school districts with the greatest need for
    servIces.

·   Embodies an inadequate vision of effective professional development. This bill
    would not encourage the kinds of professional development that research and
    teachers identify as being most effective, especially activities that are collaborative,
    on-going, school-based, and focused on content. Research has shown that activities
    such as teacher study groups, teacher networks, classroom observation, intemships,
    and mentoring often provide more relevant and useful professional development for
    teachers than do the more traditional kinds of professional development, such as
    short-term workshops and college courses. Professional development must also be
    a component of broader educational reforms underway in the school or district if it
    is to have a meaningful impact on teaching and leaming. The Teacher
    Empowerment Act fails to make this connection.

    In addition, the proposal tends to emphasize teacher licensure over professional
    development. On-going professional development is critical if teachers are to stay
    current in their subject-field knowledge and effectively implement curricula tied to
    student content and performance standards. For this reason, the reauthorized ESEA
    must provide strong support for effective professional development.

·   Fails to adequately address issues of national significance. This bill limits the
    Secretary of Education to administering two specific national activities -- the
    Troops for Teachers program (see comments below) and Teacher Excellence
    Academies. The teacher academies are likely to have an impact only at the local
    level, especially since the proposal does not provide a mechanism for the Secretary
    to disseminate information about the grantees' teacher academies or to provide
    technical assistance to other school districts who are developing teacher academies.
    In contrast, the Administration's proposal provides authority for the Secretary to
    conduct a broad range of activities of national significance. Such activities would
    include, among others, professional development programs for principals to help
    them become instructional leaders, programs to encourage pension and credential
    portability, and the development of performance-based systems for assessing
    teacher content knowledge and skills. A broad authority to carry out nationally
    significant activities, such as these, is an essential component of a reauthorized
    ESEA Title II.
                                                              Hex-Dump Conversion

·   Fails to expand the Troops-to-Teachers program. The bill's Troops-to-Teachers
    proposal would continue to focus solely on members of the anned forces and fail to
    extend eligibility for the program to non-military mid-careerists. By not extending
    eligibility for the program to other individuals who have solid academic
    backgrounds, the proposal would deprive school districts of a potentially larger
    pool of applicants at a time when districts, particularly those with high
    concentrations of disadvantaged children, are having difficulty finding well-
    qualified applicants in many of the subject fields.


