RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (ALL-IN-1 MAIL)

CREATOR: Karen R. Guss ( GUSS_K )   (WHO)

CREATION DATE/TIME: 4-AUG-1995 18:09:58.62

SUBJECT: Carol's briefing time w/POTUS on Choice

TO: Nancy-Ann E. Min                          MIN N      (OMB)
READ: 5-AUG-1995 12:06:51.09

TO: Martha Foley                              FOLEY M      (OMB)
READ: 4-AUG-1995 19:16:17.07

TO: Betsy Myers                               MYERS B      (WHO)
READ: 4-AUG-1995 18:26:33.20

TO: Elena Kagan                               KAGAN E      (WHO)
READ: 6-AUG-1995 14:22:36.87

TO: Janet Murguia                             MURGUIA J      (WHO)
READ: 7-AUG-1995 09:29:31.20

TO: Jennifer L. Klein                         KLEIN J      (OPD)
READ: 4-AUG-1995 18:10:58.46

CC: Jeremy D. Benami                          BENAMI J      (OPD)
READ: 7-AUG-1995 08:54:41.52

TEXT:
Carol, George S. and Jeremy met with the President today and ran
down the list of abortion-related activities in the Congress with
him. The President stated that he is comfortable with us
communicating that he is strongly opposed to these restrictive
measures. With respect to whether he would veto the
Appropriations bills if the only objectional thing left in them
were the abortion provisions, the President said: (1) on the
Treasury/Postal bill, he would need the cover of the unions asking
him for the veto, and (2) he couldn't imagine the Labor/HHS bill
getting cleaned up to that extent. Although the D & X issue was
not discussed at length (POTUS will be getting a decision memo
from James on that topic), the President indicated that he would
be comfortable with legislation that prohibited most third
trimester abortions but that he objected to attempts to ban
specific procedures.
I will be circulating the talking points and a draft one-pager
early next week. Does anyone have comments on the talking points
for me?


