RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (ALL-IN-1 MAIL)

CREATOR: Dinah Bear ( BEAR_D )    (CEQ)

CREATION DATE/TIME:20-0CT-1995 19:08:37.07

SUBJECT: NRFC Interrogatory

TO: Thomas C. Jensen                            JENSEN T    ( CEQ)
READ:20-0CT-1995 19:11:04.55

TO: Elena Kagan                                 KAGAN E    (WHO)
READ:23-0CT-1995 09:28:53.78

TEXT:
DOJ proposes the following answer to the interrogatory asking the
government to "Identify the highest ranking government officials
in the Department of Agriculture, Department of Interior, the
Executive Office of the President, and the Council on
Environmental Quality, or anywhere else in the executive branch of
the government, who are directly and personally responsible for
the implementation of section 2001(k) of the Pub. L. 104-19,
including compliance with Judge Hogan's order of September 13,
1995. "
Justice's proposed response is as follows:
"Only the land management agencies can actually implement section
2001(k) of the Pub. L. 104-19. Therefore the highest ranking
government officials who are directly and personally responsible
for the implementation of Pub. L. 104-10, including compliance
with Judge Hogan's order of September 13, 1995, are Secretary of
Agriculture Dan Glickman and Secretary of the Interior Bruce
Babbitt."
My reaction is to strike the first sentence and start the response
by simply stating, "The highest ranking .         " I t seems to
me that the first sentence suggests the desirability of asking a
second question. What do both of you think?
DOJ needs any comments by NOON on Monday.


