 RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (ALL-IN-l MAIL)

 CREATOR: Thomas C. Jensen ( JENSEN_T      (CEQ)

 CREATION DATE/TIME:29-FEB-1996 13:54:30.65

 SUBJECT: n

 TO: Kathleen A. McGinty                         MCGINTY K      (CEQ)
 READ:29-FEB-1996 13:56:31.76

 TO: Dinah Bear                                  BEAR D      (CEQ)
 READ:29-FEB-1996 13:57:30.73

 TO: Elena Kagan                                 KAGAN E      (WHO)
 READ:29-FEB-1996 13:56:48.96

 TO: T J Glauthier                               GLAUTHIER T         (OMB)
 READ:29-FEB-1996 21:00:38.53

 TEXT:

 ==================== ATTACHMENT   1 ====================
 ATT CREATION TIME/DATE:29-FEB-1996 11:39:00.00

 ATT BODYPART TYPE:E

 ATT CREATOR: curt smitch

 ATT SUBJECT: Lunch meeting with Jim Lyons and timber industry people

 ATT TO: bear d

 ATT TO: jensen_t                                    jensen_t@Al@CD

 TEXT:

         Dinah & Tom,  I am passing along a message FYI.       It is from my field
         supervisor in Oregon.  It is instructive.

         Curt


                                Forward Header
 Subject: Lunch meeting with Jim Lyons and timber industry people
 Author: Russ Peterson at lPO-PFOl
 Date:    2/28/96 5:15 PM


         Craig,

         Thanks for the message.  I'm passing it on the Curt and others for
         their information.  I guess the positives are that some in industry
         seem flexible and that Jim Lyons wants a solution to be acceptable to
         us and NMFS.  I think that compatibility of replacement volume with
         the provisions of the Forest Plan is the main thing that we would
         want.  Paul has some ideas on how best to "credit" harvest volume.
         You may want to discuss the situation with him and pass the combined
         thoughts on to Don Ostby if he is the focal point in Douglas County to
         finding a solution.



      Russ


                                Forward Header _______________________________________
 Subject: Lunch meeting with Jim Lyons and timber industry people
 Author: Craig Tuss at IPO-MAIN
 Date:    2/28/96 3:58 PM


      At noon today I attended a brown bag lunch with Jim Lyons, Mike Lunn
       (Siskiyou Forest Supervisor), Don Ostby (Umpqua· Forest Supervisor),
      Nancy Graybill, Bob Williams, Howard Sohn, Allyn Ford and D.R.Johnson.
      I was invited by D. Ostby. Discussion focused on the salvage rider and
      the replacement volume issue. This meeting was put together by Ostby
      who has been working with these industry folks to find a "workable
      solution to a sticky situation". Some discussion had taken place prior
      to the lunch but I was not able to attend that portion.

      Jim Lyons began the discussion by asking each of the timber industry
      people what their major issues and concerns were and what
      recommendations they could provide.

      Allyn ford said he wants certainty in regards to getting this volume.
      He is willing to get it from places other than the original sale site,
      but is not willing to see the sales "bought back". His mill needs the
      inventory of logs, availability of the logs in the next one to two
      years, and logs that approach "old growth dimension" (of like value and
      quality) to help them through this interim period when they are
      retooling their facilities to meet the future. He really needs to know
      what is going to happen with these sales within the next 30 days,
      because the clock is ticking and he does not want to have the issue
      drag on and the door close (salvage rider end) before his company can
      get their sale executed.

      Howard Sohn said the same thing and added he is willing to take
      replacement volume from outside the sale boundary, outside the
      administrative unit boundary, outside the state boundary, outside the
      international boundary, or from the log market.  He also mentioned
      that the original time frame to get these sales done was about 12
      months and now they are looking at 7 months. Bottom line is that they
      need the logs and are willing to get them anywhere, just as long as
      they can lock them up.

      D.R.Johnson was more strident, he opened by saying that the current
      sales should be okay the way they are designed.  He does not feel bad
      that he is taking these trees. D.R. reiterated that "by back" of the
      sales is a untenable solution. He did not go as far as to say he was
      willing to accept replacement volume but did say he was willing to
      work with the Forest Service to find a solution.

      All three made the point that the solution should come from the local
      people (forest supervisors), not from D.C. and that the solution had
      to be fairly quick (next couple of weeks).  The idea of certainty
      permeated the discussion and messages. They feel that the salvage
      rider gives tham certainty, and they want any future solution to
      mantain that certainty. They were very interested in how or who would
      be the vehicle to get a legislative and administrative solution on the
      ground.


      Jim Lyons mentioned that there are several ways to get a deal done
      (i.e. a C.R.) in the near future and that the Oregon and Washington
      Delegation was working on the possibilities right now. He said
      hearing the concerns and ideas was valuable.  He said that he has time
      on the CEQ meeting agenda next tuesday (3-5) to discuss this trip and
      the variuos ideas that people have mentioned. He mentioned that he is
      meeting with Paula Burgess tommorrow.

      He also mentioned that any solution would have to have FWS and NMFS
      aggreement and support.

      Ther bottom-line message I took from the meeting is that the timber
      industry sees their momentum waning and that to maintain their
      certainty they need to get a solution quickly. The industry is only
      concerned about the September 30 date as it pertains to gauranteeing
      that these sales will be executed.   They are willing to let the trees
      stand into next year, as long as they know they will get them (or
      replacement volume for them). If they do not get a solution in the
      next couple of weeks they will go ahead and cut the trees (thereby
      insuring certainty, as D.R. put it).

      Please contact me if you need more info, or have questions.



 ==================   END ATTACHMENT   1   ==================
==================== ATTACHMENT 2 ====================
ATT CREATION TIME/DATE:29-FEB-1996 12:07:00.00

ATT BODYPART TYPE:D

TEXT:
RFC-822-headers:
Received: from storm.eop.gov (storm.eop.gov)
 by PMDF.EOP.GOV (PMDF V5.0-4 #6879) id <01I1S9NEJZY8001QVB@PMDF.EOP.GOV>; Thu,
 29 Feb 1996 12:05:33 -0400 (EDT)
Received: from dns.irm.r9.fws.gov ("port 2037"@dns.irm.r9.fws.gov)
 by STORM.EOP.GOV (PMDF V5.0-6 #6879) id <01I1S90C2YYE00024C@STORM.EOP.GOV>;
 Thu, 29 Feb 1996 12:06:35 -0700 (MST)
Received: from mail.fws.gov (mail.irm.r9.fws.gov)
 by dns.irm.r9.fws.gov (4.1/SMI-4.1) id AA02404; Thu,
 29 Feb 1996 09:50:43 -0700 (MST)
Received: from ccMail by mail.fws.gov (SMTPLINK V2.11 PreRelease 4)
 id AA825615947; Thu, 29 Feb· 1996 08:39:12 -0700 (MST)
================== END ATTACHMENT    2 ==================


