 RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (ALL-IN-1 MAIL)

 CREATOR: Thomas C. Jensen { JENSEN_T    (CEQ)

 CREATION DATE/TIME:29-FEB-1996 16:52:53.46

 SUBJECT: Timber strategy

 TO: Kathleen A. McGinty                       MCGINTY K      (CEQ)
 READ:29-FEB-1996 19:33:00.56

 TO: T J Glauthier                             GLAUTHIER T         (OMB)
 READ:29-FEB-1996 21:17:59.91

 TO: Martha Foley                              FOLEY M      (WHO)
 READ:29-FEB-1996 16:59:46.15

TO: Barbara C. Chow                            CHOW B      (WHO)
READ:29-FEB-1996 17:17:22.15

TO: Jennifer M. O'Connor                       OCONNOR J      (WHO)
READ:29-FEB-1996 17:28:06.57

 TO: Elena Kagan                               KAGAN E      (WHO)
 READ:29-FEB-1996 17:08:48.20

 TO: Dinah Bear                                BEAR D      (CEQ)
 READ:29-FEB-1996 17:08:36.80

 CC: Brian J. Johnson                          JOHNSON BJ      (CEQ)
 READ:29-FEB-1996 17:31:23.50

TEXT:
During today's meeting with Sen. Murray's staff, I heard an
apparent difference of opinion -- a significant difference of
opinion -- on the question whether we're likely to support the
Murray approach on timber salvage, that is, the repeal and replace
approach.
It strikes me that we will get no benefit from doing or supporting
anything that deviates much from her approach.   I'm particularly
concerned that we not send an implicit signal that we're happy
with/comfortable with/willing to live with/resigned to sufficiency
language. Yes, we have some measure of faith in the processes
we've established, but nobody else does.
There is no sector of the environmental community, rational or
otherwise, that can afford to let us slide on sufficiency. They
will have to campaign against us.   Their campaigining on that
point will obscure and sharply devalue our moves on green sales.
It seems patent to me that the Administration has to be "against"
sufficiency, even if we are tolerant of or actively supportive of
a salvage program in the Northwest or elsewhere. To do otherwise
will virtually eliminate any political benefit we may receive from
the President's Saturday statement.   I'd hate to have wasted all
that good work.
With that in mind, why shouldn't we simply catch a ride on Sen.
Murray's coattails on salvage? We could at least support her
general approach, while also emphasizing our faith in our own
process (at least its capacity for redemption).   I have trouble
seeing why we would have a different "salvage" policy from hers.
Particulary given the very difficult burden we'd have justifying


or winning support for anything uniquely our own. We'd certainly
make her mad, and win little or no support elsewhere.


