RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (ALL-IN-1 MAIL)

CREATOR: Elisabeth Blaug ( BLAUG_E )   (CEQ)

CREATION DATE/TIME:26-APR-1996 14:27:37.12

SUBJECT: headwaters

TO: Elena Kagan                                KAGAN E     (WHO)
READ:26-APR-1996 14:45:16.27

TO: Dawn Chirwa                                CHIRWA D     (WHO)
READ:26-APR-1996 14:29:27.33

CC: Kathleen A. McGinty                        MCGINTY K     (CEQ)
READ:26-APR-1996 16:03:52.25

TEXT:
Now that the litigation letter has been signed, sealed and
delivered, John Martin, from Hurwitz's firm Patton Boggs, wants to
meet with us on Wednesday at 10:00 to start talking about
available properties (recall that they already have that dated GSA
list which provides little information). Allen McReynolds met
with GSA on Monday (Tony Costa, Chief of Staff to the
Commissioner) to convey the message that we want to work with a
senior level appointee on this to get an updated list of
properties, and go through that list carefully, and ASAP.   In
addition, FDIC is putting together a more extensive list of
available properties, and would like to meet with us prior to the
Wednesday meeting to provide us with the new list, give us any
info they can provide on a preliminary settlement figure they and
OTS think would be sufficient in the event Hurwitz requests
settlement discussions with FDIC/OTS, and follow up on other
issues.
I would like to have the Wednesday meeting in the CEQ conference
room.   I haven't connected with Jack Smith, but I will suggest
Tuesday at 10:00, same place. Hope one or both of you can attend
both meetings. Let me know if timing is a problem. Thanks!


