RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (ALL-IN-l MAIL)

CREATOR: James S. Rubin ( RUBIN_J )   (WHO)

CREATION DATE/TIME:2B-MAY-l996 l2:47:54.94

SUBJECT: campaign finance reform

TO: Kathleen M. Wallman                       WALLMAN KM      (WHO)
READ:2B-MAY-l996 l5:23:44.72

TO: Paul J. Weinstein, Jr                     WEINSTEIN P      (OPD)
READ:2B-MAY-l996 l3:25:32.43

TO: Elena Kagan                               KAGAN E      (WHO)
READ:2B-MAY-l996 l4:2l:20.2l

TO: Michael Waldman                           WALDMAN M      (WHO)
READ:2B-MAY-l996 2l:36:42.44

TO: William Curry                             CURRY W      (WHO)
READ:2B-MAY-l996 l6:ll:43.B3

TO: James Weber                               WEBER J      (WHO)
READ:2B-MAY-l996 l3:2B:OO.73

TO: Virginia M. Terzano                       TERZANO V      (WHO)
READ:2B-MAY-1996 l4:44:49.03

TO: Jennifer M. O'Connor                      OCONNOR J      (WHO)
READ:2B-MAY-1996 l3:53:32.75

TO: Lisa Jordan Tamagni                       TAMAGNI L      (WHO)
READ:2B-MAY-1996 l2:4B:03.45

TO: Peter Jacoby                              JACOBY P      (WHO)
READ:2B-MAY-l996 l6:l2:l3.59

CC: John Hilley                               HILLEY J      (WHO)
READ:2B-MAY-l996 20:49:lB.ll

TEXT:
Both the House and Senate will see floor action soon on campaign finance reform.
Leg. Affairs would therefore like to convene a meeting to discuss the issue,
ll:30am tomorrow, in a room we'll reserve (and announce later today).    Per
Peter Jacoby and Jamie Rubin, the following is a brief review of the state of
play:
Senate: The President has already endorsed the McCain-Feingold bill, which is
now attached as an amendment to the Department of Defense Authorization bill
that the Senate is scheduled to take up next week.  The bill bases candidate
spending limits on each state's population, entitles complying candidates to
both free and discounted broadcast time, bans PAC contributions, requires full
disclosure of soft money contributions, and bans bundling.
House: The GOP leadership has announced that the House will consider campaign
finance reform during the week of July B. Among the proposals on the table will
be a Democratic leadership bill that limits spending per 2-year cycle, limits
PAC and individual contributions, provides broadcast discounting as an incentive
to participate in spending limits, eliminates soft money, and eliminates
bundling (with an exception for non-affiliated, non-connected PACs like Emily's
List). The GOP says it will have a bill, too. Details are unknown, but there


will almost certainly be provisions targeting union political activity, in the
form of a codification of the Supreme Court's 1988 Beck decision.  In Beck, the
court ruled that non-union workers who pay "agency fees" to unions are entitled
to a refund of whatever portion of those fees the unions don't spend on
collective bargaining activities, i.e. that the agency fees can't subsidize
union political activities. Republicans can be expected to argue -- as they
have in the past -- that nobody (union or non-union) should be forced against
his or her will to contribute to a union-endorsed candidate and that unions
refund far too little money, far too infrequently.
Independent Proposal: A group led by ex-journalist Paul Taylor has petitioned
the networks to give each of the major Presidential candidates five minutes of
free prime time each night during the last month of the campaign. Each network
responded by offering some variant of this. Reed Hundt has stated the FCC's
intention to hold a hearing on the proposal.


