     RECORD TYPE:   PRESIDENTIAL    (ALL- IN-1 MAIL)

     CREATOR:   James J. Jukes   ( JUKES_J)   (OMB)

     CREATION DATE/TIME:   2-AUG-1996 09:57:34.00

     SUBJECT: Draft Signing Statement for Gambling Commission Bill

     TO: Jeremy D. Benami                              BENAMI J )       (WHO)
     READ: 2-AUG-1996 10:00:08.12

     TO: Dennis Burke                                  BURKE D )    (OPD)
     READ: 5-AUG-1996 09:11:30.12

     TO: Elena Kagan                                   KAGAN E )    (WHO)
     READ: 2-AUG-1996 10:25:57.08

     TO: Peter Jacoby                                  JACOBY P)        (WHO)
     READ: 2-AUG-1996 19:10:47.75

     TO: Tracey E. Thornton                            THORNTON T       )    (WHO)
     READ: 2-AUG-1996 12: 10:05.39

     TO: Joseph Minarik                                MINARIK J )          (OMB)
     READ: 2-AUG-1996 09:58:16.05

     TO: Karin L. Kizer                                KIZER K)     (OMB)
     READ: 6-AUG-1996 10 : 14: 17 .19

     TO: Robert G. Damus                               DAMUS R )    (OMB)
     READ: 2-AUG-1996 15:50:40.91

     TO: Steven D. Aitken                              AITKEN S )       (OMB)
     READ: 5-AUG-1996 08 :57:59.38

     TO: Kenneth L. Schwartz                           SCHWARTZ K            (OMB)
     READ: 2-AUG-1996 14 :45:09.93

     TO: David J. Haun                                 HAUN 0      (OMB)
     READ: 2-AUG-1996 10: 01:44.43

     TO: Bruce D. Beard                                BEARD B )    (OMB)
     READ: 2-AUG-1996 10 : 01: 18.97

     TO: Charles s. Konigsberg                         KONIGSBERG C )          (OMB)
     READ: 2-AUG-1996 13 :07:02.08

     TO: Victoria L. Schaefer                          SCHAEFER V)           (OMB)
     READ: 2-AUG-1996 10 :04:45.04

     TO: John Gribben                                  GRIBBEN J    )       (OMB)
     READ: 2-AUG-1996 10 :58:43.45

     TO: Floydetta McAfee                              MCAFEE F)        (WHO)
     READ: 2-AUG-1996 10 :09:53.13

     TO: Todd Stern                                    STERN T)     (WHO)
     READ: 2-AUG-1996 10 :52:40.54

     TO:   G. Timothy Saunders                         SAUNDERS GT )          (WHO)


READ: 2-AUG-1996 09:58:04.84

TO: Sara C. Emery                           EMERY S      (WHO)
READ: 6-AUG-1996 08:37:09.18

TO: Edwin R. Thomas III                     THOMAS ER      (WHO)
READ: 2-AUG-1996 10:05:32.32

CC: Timothy D. Johnson                      JOHNSON TD      (OMB)
READ: 2-AUG-1996 10:29:05.19

CC: Ronald E. Jones                         JONES RE      (OMB)
READ: 2-AyG-1996 10:10:26.69

CC: Jeffrey A. Weinberg                     WEINBERG J      (OMB)
READ: 2-AUG-1996 10:00:46.39

TEXT:
PRINTER FONT 12 - POINT- COURIER
The following is a draft signing statement for the gambling
commission bill.    Please direct any comments to Tim Johnson
(JOHNSON_TD) by 2:00 TODAY. Thank you.     [Text follows.)
STATEMENT BY THE PRESIDENT

         I have today approved H.R. 497, the ?National Gambling
Impact Study Commission Act.? This Commission will conduct a
comprehensive study of the social and economic impacts of
gambling in the United States.
       . The creation of this Commission will help draw attention to
the growth of the gambling industry and its consequences. Too
often, public officials view gambling as a quick and easy way to
raise revenues, without focusing on gambling?s hidden social,
economic, and political costs.   Public officials need to consider
carefully all of the effects of gambing, and the Commission will
report on these effects to the President and the Congress.
         The Commission?s study will address various types of
betting, whether conducted in a casino, on a river boat, on the
Internet, on an Indian reservation, or anywhere else in the
United States.   In addition, the study will address gambling
sponsored by governmental, commercial, philanthropic, or
charitable entities. Such a balanced study will be invaluable to
public officials as they make policy decisions concerning this
important issue.
         The legislation grants the Commission limited subpoena
authority to get the information it needs to carry out its
purpose, while protecting the privacy of information given to the
Commission that would disclose the identity of any person or
business entity or any other information protected by the Privacy
Act. The bill also authorizes the Commission to request
information from any Federal agency, which may use its discretion
and judgment in withholding privileged and sensitive information.
         My Administration supported the establishment of this
Commission, and I am pleased to sign H.R. 497 into law.


