RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (ALL-IN-l MAIL)

CREATOR: Dinah Bear ( BEAR_D )   (CEQ)

CREATION DATE/TIME:l6-AUG-l996 19:17:02.97

SUBJECT: California timber

TO: Ron Klain                                  KLAIN R ) Autoforward to: Remote Addresse
READ:NOT READ

TO: Martha Foley                               FOLEY M ) (WHO)
READ:20-AUG-l996 ll:05:03.37

TO: Deborah L. Fine                            FINE D ) (OPD)
READ:l9-AUG-l996 lO:l6:l6.84

TO: Jennifer Palmieri                          PALMIERI J    (WHO)
READ:l9-AUG-l996 08:03:53.33

TO: Jennifer M. O'Connor                       OCONNOR J    (WHO)
READ:l9-AUG-l996 ll:42:l9.9l

TO: Elena Kagan                                KAGAN E ) (WHO)
READ:2l-AUG-l996 l2:0l:54.0l

TEXT:
Earlier this summer, the Forest Service was set to go final with a
decision that would substantially increase timber harvest in
California. In light of public concern about timber sales under
the salvage rider and the imminent release of the Sierra Nevada
Ecosystem Report (a Congressionally mandated scientific assessment
of the Sierra Nevada mountain range), the Forest Service decided
to go out with a revised draft environmental impact statement
 (EIS) instead, hold a series of workshops to get the public more
involved, and then go forward with what we were told would
probably be a significantly changed preferred alternative.
While some of this seemed to be moving us towards a more
environmentally sustainable timber program, we just learned that
the revised draft EIS will identify a preferred alternative that
would double the timber harvest level from 1995 (though i t is
substantially lower than timber levels before 1993). Perhaps even
more importantly from an environmental point of view, i t moves
away from current restrictions on logging old growth trees.    The
Forest Service currently plans to release this draft EIS on
Tuesday, and is gearing up to explain that this is just a new
beginning to the process and not a final decision.
We learned about this because the Los Angeles Times is working on
a story highighting the move towards more - not less - timber and
more - not less - old growth.   Katie has asked the secretary's
office to quickly assess the available options, other than going
forward with this option at this time. We will keep you posted.
!.



