RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (ALL-IN-1 MAIL)

CREATOR: Bradley M. Campbell ( CAMPBELL BM      (CEQ)

CREATION DATE/TIME:14-AUG-1996 11:48:55.84

SUBJECT: EnviroCrimes

TO: Elena Kagan                               KAGAN E     (WHO)
READ:21-AUG-1996 10:58:41.75

TO: David Fein                                FEIN D     (WHO)
READ:14-AUG-1996 11:49:03.92

CC: Wesley P. Warren                          WARREN W     ( CEQ)
READ:26-AUG-1996 15:17:26.67

TEXT:
Welcome back, Elena. Here's where we are on environmental crimes.
DOJ yesterday presented the draft text for a new "lien" provision.
I have three major objections to their proposal for the bill:
first, the threshold is absurdly high (must show both defendant's
intent to shelter assets, and that the assets would be needed to
satisfy the ultimate judgment); second, there are so many
affirmative defenses (four of them) that the authority, on its
face, is too cumbersome and easy for defendants to disarm to be
credible (these appear not very well thought-out, since at least
two of the defenses are duplicative of another and also overlap
with the threshold showing); third, by structuring the provision
as an "order" rather than as a lien, the US does not have superior
rights to any later holders if the defendant defies the order and
shelters an asset.
After providing an initial set of scrawls reflecting these
concerns, I talked DOJ staff through my concerns this morning (I
tried to loop David into the call but reached voicemail). After
discussion, DOJ staff conceded many of the criticisms and I
verbally made a proposal on each of these issues to bridge the gap
between my initial comments and the DOJ draft.
I'll circulate to you as soon as we have a DOJ response, or I can
go into greater detail for you. Let me know.


