RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (ALL-IN-1 MAIL)

 CREATOR: Dorothy Robyn ( ROBYN_D )   (OPD)

 CREATION DATE/TIME: 3-SEP-1996 11:58:25.50

SUBJECT: FYI; I'll call to discuss.

  TO: Elena Kagan                              KAGAN E   (WHO)
. READ: 3-SEP-1996 13:09:39.22

TEXT:

==================== ATTACHMENT 1 ====================
ATT CREATION TIME/DATE: 3-SEP-1996 10:50:00.00

ATT BODYPART TYPE:B

ATT CREATOR: John A. Koskinen

ATT SUBJECT: RE: PTO Bill

ATT TO: Dorothy Robyn

ATT CC: Elaine C. Kamarck                          KAMARC E

 TEXT:
        I vote to leave the compormise language as is. John is
correct in his statement that we're trying to get people hired as
CEOs of the PBOs (love those acronyms) for full terms, rather than
have them be viewed as purely political appointees. The language
proposed is the same as that used for Inspectors General, so there
is precedent for its use.  Beyond the merits of the language, we
have enough other issues that matter that we shouldn't clutter up
the discussion at this time with this discussion.
        Somewhat belatedly, let me also respond to your inquiry
about whether OMB should be able to "review and approve" or only
"review" performance plans for the PTO. The Secretary has the
unreviewed authority to hire the CEO, develop a "framework"
agreement with him and pay the bonus earned under the performance
agreement. We have had questions raised by the Hill about the
concern that the Secretary will hire a friend and pay a bonus for
showing up on time. Therefore, we have isolated the performance
agreement, and its ties to the bonus, as the only place necessary
for third party review to provide some assurance that the system
works as proposed. The difference in "review and approve" and
"review" may be semantics in light of the normal relationship
between OMB and the agencies, but OMB's role in many areas is to
oversee statutory requirements.
        I'm buying the pizza if we ever get this PBO established.
================== END ATTACHMENT 1 ==================
