    RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (EXTERNAL MAIL)

    CREATOR: Kenneth S. Apfel@EOP@LNGTWY@EOPMRX

    CREATION DATE/TIME:10-0CT-1996 19:11:00.00

    SUBJECT: Definition of Means Tested Benefits

    TO: BENAMI J                                  BENAMI J@A1@CD      (WHO)
    READ:15-0CT-1996 09:11:39.00

    TO: FORTUNA D                                 FORTUNA D@A1@CD )    (OPD)
    READ:11-0CT-1996 08:59:02.58

    TO: KAGAN E                                   KAGAN E@A1@CD    (WHO)
    READ:NOT READ

    TO: WARNATH S                                 WARNATH S@A1@CD )    (OPD)
    READ:NOT READ

    TO: KAGAN E                                   KAGAN E@A1@CD@LNGTWY@LNGTWY@LNGTWY@EOPMRX
    READ:10-0CT-1996 19:32:49.54

    TO: WARNATH S                                 WARNATH S@A1@CD@LNGTWY@LNGTWY@LNGTWY@EOPM
    READ:11-0CT-1996 09:57:40.37

    CC: Barry White                           ( Barry White@EOP@LNGTWY@EOPMRX )
    READ:NOT READ

    CC: Stacy L. Dean                         ( Stacy L. Dean@EOP@LNGTWY@EOPMRX )
    READ:NOT READ

    CC: Keith J. Fontenot                     ( Keith J. Fontenot@EOP@LNGTWY@EOPMRX )
    READ: NOT READ

    CC: Jack A. Smalligan                     ( Jack A. Smalligan@EOP@LNGTWY@EOPMRX )
    READ:NOT READ

    CC: Matthew McKearn                       ( Matthew McKearn@EOP@LNGTWY@EOPMRX )
    READ:NOT READ

    CC: Cynthia M. Smith                      ( Cynthia M. Smith@EOP@LNGTWY@EOPMRX )
    READ:NOT READ

    CC: Deborah F. Kramer                     ( Deborah F. Kramer@EOP@LNGTWY@EOPMRX )
    READ:NOT READ

    TEXT:
    Message Creation Date was at 10-0CT-1996 19:03:00

    Below is my staff's draft of   a summary of this issue.

    DEFINITION OF MEANS-TESTED BENEFIT PROGRAM IN WELFARE REFORM

    The Personal Oppor·tunity and Work Responsibility Reconciliation Act of 1996
    bans all new immigrants from receiving Federal means-tested public benefits for
    the first five years they are in the country.    After the five year ban,
    Federal means-tested benefit program are required to deem the income of
    sponsors for new immigrants. Earlier versions of the bill defined Federal
    means-tested benefits, however, the definition was deleted on the Senate floor


prior to Conference due to the Byrd rule.   This memo addresses the key issue
in implementing a definition -- whether to include discretionary programs.

The Department of Health and Human Services and a number of advocacy groups
(see attachment l)  argue that the definition should be limited to mandatory
programs as defined under the BEA. HHS points to the fact that the definition
was deleted due to the Byrd rule, which prohibits provisions that donD,t have
an effect on direct spending in a reconciliation bill.  The definition that was
deleted was expansive, it defined a means-tested benefit as:

D&a public benefit (including cash, medical, housing, and food assistance and
social services) of the Federal Government in which the eligibility of an
individual, household, or family eligibility unit for benefits, or the amount
of such benefits, or both are determined on the basis of income, resources, or
financial need of the individual, household, or unit.D8

The Conference Report repeats this definition and states D&it is the intent of
conferees that this definition is presumed to be in place for purposes of this
title.DS

At our request, Department of Justice Office of Legal Counsel and Elena Kagen
in White House General Counsel have reviewed the legislative history. They
have concluded that a definition that is limited to mandatory programs would
not be outside the legal parameters. The General Counsels of affected agencies
have indicated that they would accept a definition limited to mandatory
programs. Attachment 2 is a summary of the largest legal arguments for
including or excluding discretionary programs from the definition.

While we are continuing to survey OMB branches, a definition that is limited to
mandatory programs would affect very few programs. The key mandatory means
tested programs (Food Stamps, SSI, Medicaid, TANF, SSBG) are addressed in
another section of the Act and some other important mandatory programs  (foster
care, adoption assistance, benefits to almost all veterans, higher education
assistance) are exempted by the Act.



ATTACHMENT: LEGAL ISSUES REGARDING DEFINITION
OF FEDERAL MEANS-TESTED BENEFITS
IN IMMIGRANTS TITLE OF WELFARE REFORM ACT


Arguments for the Exclusion of Discretionary Programs

 The Senate signaled its intent to limit the provision to discretionary
programs by deleting a broad definition that would have included mandatory and
discretionary programs.

 This interpretation is supported by a colloquy by Senator Chaffee in which he
indicated that the Byrd Rule exclusion was appropriate because the definition
extended to discretionary programs and therefore should be excluded from the
bill because, to the extent that it did, there was no scorable cost effect.

 While the statute includes exemptions for discretionary programs, these
exemptions predate the Byrd rule action.

 No legal precedents can be found to indicate that the Byrd rule action cannot
be used to determine Congressional intent.

Arguments Against the Exclusion of Discretionary Programs



               The plain language of the law suggests a broad reading of the term Federal
              means-tested benefits. Nothing in the language suggests that discretionary
              programs be excluded.

               The statute lists specific programs exempted from the ban, including
              discretionary programs. This suggests that Congress intended for non-exempted
              discretionary programs to be included in the ban.

               The Conference report states that the conferees intend that the definition
              deleted by the Byrd rule be D&presumed to be in place for the purposes of this
              title.DB There was no objection to the statement during final deliberations on
              the bill in the House and the Senate.

               An exhaustive review of federal statutory, regulatory and judicial contexts
              yielded few uses of the term; however, the citations found suggested a broad
              definition which includes mandatory and discretionary programs.

               The Byrd Rule deletion of the definition occurred under procedural grounds.   A
              search of judicial cases failed to identify any precedents where a court
              determined Congressional intent based on application of the Byrd Rule.
It".   ··f




