RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Nicole R. Rabner ( CN=Nicole R. Rabner/OU=WHO/O=EOP [ WHO 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 7-FEB-1997 14:03:23.00

SUBJECT:   HHS adoption report

TO: Lyn A. Hogan ,( CN=Lyn A. Hogan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Pauline M. Abernathy ( CN=Pauline M. Abernathy/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
I talked to Carol Williams and then to Olivia's office about our "where
the hell is the draft report" concern, and here's their story: they are
finishing the writi~g of the report as we speak, and want to incorporate
comments from their internal clearance process (which they will initiate
as soon as the drafting concludes) before sharing it with us so that what
we work off of is a concensus HHS document. They want to defer sharing a
draft with us until Monday, suggesting that we meet on Tuesday, at which p
oint all WH comments could be taken, discussed and incorporated as
appropriate.

I asked about the likelihood that the promise of Monday becomes a promise
of Tuesday, and so on, and was assured that Monday was a firm date.   I
suggested that we may want something by COB today, and Carol said that
Bruce/Elena would have to take that up with Olivia. I then raised with
Carol my concern that, above all, OMB (Lester Cash) must be in the loop on
the development of the bonus proposal, and Carol said that Lester and
Matthew in OMB have been engaged.  I have since spoken with Lester
directly, who said that, having seen some preliminary paper and having
been a part of discussions with HHS OMB, they feel okay about the
direction of bonus proposal and that if what they have heard is reflected
in the draft we receive, Monday would give them enough time to turn things
around in OMB. He and I talked through his understanding of the bonus
proposal, and I think that we at the WH will have to have a serious
discussion about the structure of the bonus, focusing on how much we
should enhance the bonus for the adoptions of hard-to-place kids (HHS, as
they mentioned when they briefed us, were cautioned during their
consultation process not to promote "creaming" of easy-to-place kids with
the bonus, i.e. to pay particular attention to special needs kids).   This
is one of a number of issues we will need to discuss.

My recommendation is for Elena to call Olivia to express our concern that
the White House has enough time to consider/analyze their report and
comment appropriately before the report is due and transmitted.  Perhaps
Elena could ask for 2 things:

1. a firm time on Monday when we can expect the praft report

2. excerpts from the draft paper or a memo from Carol or Olivia to her by
COB today that outlines what HHS is going to propose on the four areas on


which there was no specific policy direction given at our last meeting.
Those four areas are: I} the bonus proposal; 2} the setting of the target
-- is it going to be time-specific; 3}the strategy for MEPA "aggressive
implementation -- is HHS going to issue guidelines or exact penalties for
lack of adhering to statute; and 4} the structure of the grants for TA for
"removing barriers."

Please advise.


