      RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

      CREATOR: Leanne A. Shimabukuro ( CN=Leanne A. Shimabukuro/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD,]       )

      CREATION DATE/TIME:12-MAR-1997 19:16:47.00

      SUBJECT:   FYI to workaholics

      TO: Cathy R. Mays ( CN=Cathy R. Mays/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ] )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO: Stephen C. Warnath ( CN=Stephen C. warnath/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ] )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ] )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO: Nicole R. Rabner ( CN=Nicole R. Rabner/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO]    )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ] )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO: Lyn A. Hogan     CN=Lyn A. Hogan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ] )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO: Elizabeth Drye ( CN=Elizabeth Drye/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ] )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO:'Dennis K. Burke ( CN=Dennis K. Burke/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ] )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO: WEINSTEIN P     WEINSTEIN P @ A1 @ CD @ LNGTWY [ EOP ] )   (OPD)
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO: Leanne A. Shimabukuro ( CN=Leanne A. Shimabukuro/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ] )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO: Diane C. Regas ( CN=Diane C. Regas/OU=OPD/O=EOP @EOP [ OPD ] )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO: William R. Kincaid ( cN=William R. Kincaid/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ] )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO: Christopher C. Jennings ( CN=Christopher C. Jennings/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ]
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO: Diana Fortuna ( CN=Diana Fortuna/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ] )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO: Michael Cohen ( CN=Michael Cohen/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ] )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO: Pauline M. Abernathy ( CN=Pauline M. Abernathy/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ]    )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TEXT:
      ---------------------- Forwarded by Leanne A. Shimabukuro/OPD/EOP on
      03/12/97 07:15 PM ---------------------------
                                                                                              '-




Ashley L. Raines
03/12/97 06:55:35 PM
Record Type:     Record

To:      Leanne A. Shimabukuro/OPD/EOP, Wendy J. Einhellig/OPD/EOP
cc:
Subject:         Telephone switch upgrade

An upgrade to the three EOP telephone systems software is scheduled for
this coming weekend and beginning on Friday, March 14 at 11:00 pm. This
upgrade will provide improvements to security features and maintenance
capabilities for the EOP phone systems.  Following is the upgrade plan and
scheduled outage times for the buildings affected:

OEOB            Friday, March 14        11:00 - 11:20 p.m.

White House     Saturday, March 15      11:00 - 11:20 p.m.

NEOB            Saturday, March 15      11:00 - 11:20 p.m.

After the 20 minute disruption, some users may notice that their speaker
phone red light is on or their red primary line preference light may not
come back on. Typically, placing or receiving a calIon the telephone set
will bring it back into service, or simply lifting the handset and setting
it back down will resolve the problem.  If this does not bring the phone
back in service, please instruct your staff to go to another phone and
call the Telephone Service Office trouble desk x69611.

There are certain functions of the EOP that will remain operational during
these outages (e.g. White House operators, WHCA Signal Switchboard, USSS
Control Center, etc.)  If you have functions that must be operational 24
hours a day or must be operational during these planned outage time
frames, please contact me by noon Friday, March 14 to coordinate keeping
your phones operational while your system is being upgraded.

The Telephone Service Office trouble desk, x69611, will be staffed on
Saturday and Sunday from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. to assist users with any
problems. Sheryl Hall   (Telecommunications and Security) can also be
paged through the White House Operator if assistance is needed at any
point this weekend.

Thank you.
EMAILS RECEIVED
ARMS - BOX 058 - FOLDER -006


[03/13/1997-03/18/1997]
