 RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (EXTERNAL MAIL)

 CREATOR: Cynthia A. Rice@EOP@LNGTWY@EOPMRX

 CREATION DATE/TIME: 6-APR-1997 19:41:00.00

 SUBJECT: POTUS Remarks Friday re: Child Care

 TO: Mazur M                                   Mazur M@A1@CD   (WHO)
 READ: 7-APR-1997 08:50:44.88

 TO: Elena Kagan                           ( Elena Kagan@EOP@LNGTWY@EOPMRX )
 READ:NOT READ

 TO: Jennifer L. Klein                     ( Jennifer L. Klein@EOP@LNGTWY@EOPMRX )
 READ:NOT READ

 TO: Pauline M. Abernathy                  ( Pauline M. Abernathy@EOP@LNGTWY@EOPMRX )
 READ: NOT READ

 TO: Nicole R. Rabner                      ( Nicole R. Rabner@EOP@LNGTWY@EOPMRX )
 READ: NOT READ

TO: Thomas L. Freedman                     ( Thomas L. Freedman@EOP@LNGTWY@EOPMRX )
READ: NOT READ

TEXT:
Message Creation Date was at    6-APR-1997 19:34:00

Excerpt from Remarks by the President during Women's Economic
Leadership Forum, April 4, 1997:


In addition to that, we have tried to improve, as Betsy
said, the operation of the federal child care programs and how they
interface with those at the local level. And in the welfare reform
bill, one of the best things about it was we put up $4 billion more
for child care.   But let me say, I still believe in some ways that's
the most underfunded employee support program in the United States.
And I urge you to take a look at that -- about the delivery system
and how it works.   (Applause.)

             One of the things that I think should be done intensely
in every state -- and I'm going around to state legislators, along
with the Vice President and the First Lady, to talk to them about
education reform and welfare reform -- and one of the things that I
think every state should do is to target the establishment of child
care centers and the training of child care workers for moving people
from welfare to work and then giving people on welfare who do become
certified child care workers either free or discounted service for
their own children in the child care centers where their parents
work.

             If you look at it, we have a window here of significant
opportunity, because the states got a block grant under the welfare
reform bill, targeted to how much they were getting when the welfare
rolls were at their highest. The welfare rolls have now dropped by
about 2.5 million, the biggest drop in history.  So they. have some
extra money here until the next economic recession comes along.


                  And I believe that one of the most significant things
     that can be done -- and I urge all of you to ask your states to
     consider doing this and to lobby at the state level to do this -- is
     to focus very sharply on the opportunity this welfare reform bill
     plus this extra cash the states gives up to set up for the first time
     a genuinely comprehensive well trained, well staffed, properly funded
     chid care network in the country in a way that will move people from
     welfare to work and make child care available to lower wage working
     people who have never been on welfare in their lives, but can't
     afford decent child care for their kids.  It's a terrific opportunity
     and we should be doing it.   (Applause.)
EMAILS RECEIVED
ARMS .. BOX 059 - FOLDER -003


[04/07/1997]


