RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Elizabeth Drye ( CN=Elizabeth Drye/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1

CREATION DATE/TIME: 28-MAR-1997 10:15:51.00

SUBJECT:   Food safety and tobacco

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Tobacco -- At today's kick butts planning meeting (2:00) I suggest we
advocate that the President speak out about recent aggressive tobacco
advertising practices.  The President could call on companies to act with
moral courage and restraint. Companies are not yet using the Internet to
advertise directly at US sites, but they are using it in subtle new ways
that might recruit youth smokers.  Further, companies have recently used
bold new advertising tactics that reach youth in other media. For example,
RJ Reynolds has moved attractive Joe Camel imagery right onto cigarette
packs and is marketing a "collector pack" series. Virginia slims is also
currently sponsoring a concert tour and CD for young new women artists as
part of its "It's a woman's thing" campaign (ugh).  Administration staff
and outside groups agree it's a good time for some strong words from POTUS.

Food Safety -- USDA/FDA/CDC are holding a 2 1/2 day meeting M-W next week
to work with groups on the President's food safety initiative.  They've
asked me to speak Monday a.m. for 15 minutes outlining the initiative. We
expect about 200-300 people from industry trade associations, science
associations, and consumer advocacy groups.  As you know, I met with the
senior people from most of the key groups in White House meetings in early
March.   Is it o.k. for me to speak? Do you want to review my remarks?
Could be trade press there.


