RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Jose Cerda III ( CN=Jose Cerda III/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:25-JUL-1997 11:54:53.00

SUBJECT:   Weekly Items

TO: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Leanne A. Shimabukuro ( CN=Leanne A. Shimabukuro/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
EK/LE:

LeAnNe Is DoInG tHe WeEkLy BuLlEt oN jUvle. Here are some other goodies:

Brady Law     On Thursday, July 24th, the Arkansas Attorney General issued
a statement making clear that Arkansas did have the proper authority under
state law to continue doing Brady background checks. Thus, Ohio is now
the only state that has given to the NRA's pressure/legal argument that
they do not have the authority to continue doing Brady background checks.
Justice and Treasury officials are still working with the Ohio Attorney
General's office to reverse this post-Brady decision policy.

Household Survey    Preliminary findings from HHS' 1996 Household Survey
on drug abuse are in, and the results are mixed.  They include:

1. Overall drug use remains flat. There are 13 million current users or
6.1% of the population. Most are marijuana users -- 10.1 million persons
or 4.7% of the population.

2.  Increases among some youth seems to have stopped. The jump in
marijuana use by youth aged 12 - 17 that has occurred since 1992 dropped
slightly in 1996. However, marijuana use by youth aged 18 - 25 has
increased slightly.

3. Heroin use up. Not only is heroin use increased since last year --
particularly for youth ages 25 and under -- but there are a record number
of new heroin users (141,000).

4.  Cocaine use showing signs of coming back.  Past month users of cocaine
are up slightly for the first time since 1992 -- and up 27% since the 1994
low point in cocaine use. Also, HHS estimates that the rate for first-time
cocaine users in the 12 - 17 age group is one of the highest ever.

NB:  The Household Survey measures drug use in America's households (age
groups 12 - 17, 18 - 25, and 25 and up), not the entire population. The
survey misses youth below the age of 12, military personnel, homeless
persons, and those in prisons and jails. Thus, the survey tends to miss
some of the hard-core drug users.

Crack Study     Justice's National Institute of Justice is set to release
an analysis of Drug Use Forecasting (DUF) data from 1987 to 1996 that
shows crack use down in 24 cities. The report finds that crack use by


arrestees is down substantially -- and at least by 10% -- in 10 major
cities; that, in another 7 cities, crack use is down among juveniles,
which suggests that declines in the overall rate are forthcoming; that, in
5 cities, the crack epidemic was as strong as ever; and that no crack
epidemic exists in 2 of the cities.


