RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: William R. Kincaid ( CN=william R. Kincaid/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 13-AUG-1997 12:29:02.00

SUBJECT:   Charter Schools

TO: Elena Kagan, ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Ananias Blocker III ( CN=Ananias Blocker III/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
This morning I got a call from Dan Gurstein with Sen. Lieberman's staff.
He said the Senator was very interested in pushing to get full funding of
the POTUS' $100 M request on charter schools in the Senate Labor-H bill
--was looking at either doing a manager's amendment if he could get it
worked out or else trying to do a floor amendment.   He said that he
wanted to make sure, first, that he would have the President's support on
this.  I said this was an important area for us and that I wanted to talk
with others here and get back to him.

When Mike called awhile ago, he suggested that we respond back by letting
him know that we appreciate ~he Senator's support, that we're currently
having a series of internal meetings on developing an overall
appropriations strategy, that all of these issues are interconnected, and
that we'd like to get back to him later.   Does this sound like the right
approach to you?    Obviously charters are a big priority for us, but it
may well matter where they money comes from (e.g., we also want to make
sure we get the Obey money) .

Also fyi, I was at a meeting at ED yesterday on strategy reo the Goodling
Amendment and the ED groups were predicting that Coverdell was going to
try to attach "escape unsafe schools with vouchers" legislation.   I would
imagine Lieberman will be supporting him on that ...

Thanks.

- - Bill


