RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Nicole R. Rabner ( CN=Nicole R. Rabner/OU=WHO/O=EOP [ WHO 1

CREATION DATE/TIME:21-AUG-1997 19:02:52.00

SUBJECT:   DoJ initiative

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
I wanted to let you know where the DoJ proposal on exposure to violence
is.

I have worked with Sarah ·Ingersoll on a joint letter from you and Shay
Bilchek inviting folks from various agencies (principally DoJ, HHS, DOE,
DOD) to an exploratory meeting we discussed, to take place sometime in
September.  I've toned down the letter significantly and parred back the
invitees (Sarah had invited someone from every agency, it seemed).   Sarah
will fax it back to Laura's attention tomorrow for your review.   Please
feel free to tone the language or participants down further, as you wish.
Once you've approved it, Laura can select an appropriate time for the
meeting in mid-late September.   Sarah will take on all the administrative
burdens of faxing the memo and getting RSVPs in early September.   Laura,
please leave Elena's edits for me and I'll relay them and the time/date to
DOJ when I return from vacation.

Elena, on another note, I have been beating my head against the HHS brick
wall trying to get information about the recent report on Foster Care for
the past week or so, for the First Lady.  I have the report, but need to
get more information about the group -- I understand that the organization
that conducted the study leans way-right and favors privatized foster
care, but I want more information before I send it on.  I'll have it done
before the Clintons return.

I'll be back September 2nd.

Nicole


