 RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

. CREATOR: Richard Socarides ( CN=Richard Socarides/OU=WHO/O=EOP [ WHO 1 )

 CREATION DATE/TIME:13-SEP-1997 08:46:55.00

 SUBJECT:   Politics Defeats Science in Needle Exchange Deabte as House

 TO: Joshua Gotbaum ( CN=Joshua Gotbaum/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Sylvia M. Mathews ( CN=Sylvia M. Mathews/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Todd A. Summers ( CN=Todd A. Summers/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Christopher C. Jennings ( CN=Christopher C. Jennings/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Maria Echaveste ( CN=Maria Echaveste/OU=WHO/O=EOP   @   EOP .[ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Sandra Thurman ( CN=Sandra Thurman/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TEXT:
 ---------~------------ Forwarded by Richard Socarides/WHO/EOP on 09/13/97
 08:46 AM ---------------------------



         Doug.Case @ sdsu.edu
         09/12/97 11:40:00 PM
 Record Type: Record

 TO: Stuart D. Rosenstein, Richard Socarides
 cc:
 subject: Politics Defeats Science in Needle Exchange Deabte as House



 NEWS from the
 Human Rights Campaign

 1101 14th Street NW
 washington, DC 20005
 email:  kim.mills@hrc.org
 <A HREF=''http://www.hrc.org''>
 WWW: http://www.hrc.org
 </A>


 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE


Thursday, Sept. 11, 1997

    POLITICS DEFEATS SCIENCE IN NEEDLE EXCHANGE DEBATE AS HOUSE PASSES
                        ILL-CONSIDERED AMENDMENT

      Human Rights Campaign Calls on House-Senate Conferees
                  To Strike Measure From Final Bill

WASHINGTON -- Politics trumped science today as the House of
Representatives passed a wrong-headed amendment that would prevent the use
of federal funds for needle exchange programs, according to the Human
Rights Campaign.

        "The House of Representatives turned a collective blind eye to
science today so that some members could sound tough on drugs," said Seth
Kilbourn, HRC's senior policy advocate for health issues. "What they did in
reality, however, was vote to strip local communities of this chance to
save lives.

        "There is ample evidence that needle exchange programs save lives
by stemming the spread of HIV and AIDS without encouraging illegal drug
use. But a majority of the House decided not to let the facts get in the
way of demagoguing the issue."

        By a vote of 266 to 158, the House passed an amendment to the $270
billion Labor-Health and Human Services appropriations bill. The amendment
would remove the ability of the Health and Human Services secretary to
allow local communities to use federal funds for needle exchange programs.
The amendment was originally written by Rep. Tom Coburn, R-Okla. It was
intrqduced by Reps. Dennis Hastert, R-III., and Roger Wicker, R-Miss.

        The Senate version of the appropriations bill retains the
secretary's authority to determine federal policy.

        "The Human Rights Campaign will work with House and Senate
conferees to make sure that the final bill allows science, not politics, to
lead this issue," Kilbourn said.

        Needle exchange programs provide intravenous drug users with
sterile syringes in exchange for used ones. Such programs have been
implemented in more than 100 communities around the country, and have been
shown to stem the spread of HIV and other blood-borne diseases transmitted
through the sharing of injection equipment.

        Approximately one-third of reported AIDS cases are related to
intravenous drug use.

        Current law says that federal funds may not be used for needle
exchange programs unless the Department of Health and Human Services gives
the green light, which it has not done.

        In February, a report by HHS found that needle exchange programs
are effective in slowing the spread of HIV and AIDS. Six federally funded
studies have reported that needle exchange programs reduce HIV transmission
and do not increase drug use.

        Also in February, a panel of public health experts at the National
Institutes of Health concluded that needle exchange programs are a powerful
and proven weapon in the war against HIV and AIDS.


         Plus, a majority of the American public -- 55 percent -- favors
 needle exchange programs as a method to curb the spread of HIV and AIDS,
 according to a bipartisan poll conducted for the Human Rights Campaign.

          The poll found 55 percent "strongly favor" or "somewhat favor"
 needle exchange programs while 38 percent "somewhat oppose" or "strongly
 oppose" them. The poll was conducted for HRC by the Tarrance Group, a
 Republican firm, and Lake Sosin Snell and Associates, Democratic pollsters.
 The results are based on a survey of 1,000 registered voters contacted
 between April 8-10.

         The poll found that 64 percent of Democrats, 58 percent of
 independents and 45 percent of Republicans favor needle exchange programs.
 In addition, needle exchange finds support in ever region of the country,
 with 64 percent of Americans favoring it in the West, 60 percent in the
 Northeast, 51 percent in the South and 49 percent in the Midwest. The
 poll's margin of error is +/- 3.1 percent.

         In July, the American Medical Association endorsed needle exchange
 programs, joining such groups as the American Public Health Association,
 the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials, the National
 Academy of Sciences, the National Alliance of State and Territorial AIDS
 Directors, the National Black Caucus of State Legislators and the U.. S.
 Conference of Mayors. The American Bar Association endorsed them in August.

         The Human Rights Campaign is the largest national lesbian and gay
 political organization, with members throughout the country. It effectively
 lobbies Congress, provides campaign support and educates the public to
 ensure that lesbian and gay Americans can be open, honest and safe at home,
 at work and in the community.

                                 - 30 -

 *************************************************************
 HRC-NEWS is a public email news service of the Human Rights Campaign,
 providing you with up to the minute news releases and action alerts. You
 can
 instantly and easily subscribe or unsubscribe to HRC-NEWS via
 http://www.hrc.org/hrc/hrcnews
 or by sending an email to majordomo@lists.hrcusa.org.   The subject line
 can
 be blank, but on the top line of the body of the message either type:
 SUBSCRIBE HRC-NEWS             or            UNSUBSCRIBE HRC-NEWS
 The server is case sensitive so please type the above commands as shown. If
 you have any problems, please contact Phil Attey at phil.attey@hrc.org
 *************************************************************




 ==================== ATTACHMENT   1 ====================
 ATT CREATION TIME/DATE:   0 00:00:00.00

 TEXT:
 RFC-822-headers:
 Received: from conversion.pmdf.eop.gov by PMDF.EOP.GOV (PMDF V5.0-4 #6879)
  id <OlINKLBG4E6800DZTV@PMDF.EOP.GOV>; Fri, 12 Sep 1997 22:40:33 -0400 (EDT)
 Received: from storm.eop.gov (storm.eop.gov)
  by PMDF.EOP.GOV (PMDF V5.0-4 #6879) id <01INKLBCWX5C005TEO@PMDF.EOP.GOV>; Fri,


  12 Sep 1997 22:40:29 -0400 (EDT)
 Received: from mail.sdsu.edu ([130.191.25.1])
  by STORM.EOP.GOV (PMDF V5.1-7 #6879)
  with ESMTP id <01INKLATZVEG004SWL@STORM.EOP.GOV>; Fri,
  12 Sep 1997 22:40:18 -0400 (EDT)
 Received: from [130.191.242.121] ([130.191.242.121])
  by mail..sdsu.edu (8.8.7/8.8.7) with ESMTP id TAA12427; Fri,
  12 Sep 1997 19:34:36 -0700 (PDT)
 X-Sender: dcase@mail.sdsu.edu
 ================== END ATTACHMENT    1 ==================


