RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Janet Murguia ( CN=Janet Murguia/oU=wHO/O=EOP [ WHO 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:23-SEP-1997 17:46:07.00

SUBJECT:   CJS Approps and 245(i)

TO: Michael Deich ( CN=Michael Deich/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB 1
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Maria Echaveste ( CN=Maria Echaveste/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
---------------------- Forwarded by Janet Murguia/WHO/EOP on 09/23/97
05:35 PM ---------------------------




JANET MURGUIA
09/23/97 04:06:20 PM
Record Type:    Record

To:      Barbara Chow/WHO/EOP, Charles E. Kieffer/OMB/EOP, Jacob J. Lew/OMB/EOP
cc:      Peter G. Jacoby/WHO/EOP, Ananias Blocker III/WHO/EOP, Lisa M.
Kountoupes/OMB/EOP
Subject:         CJS Approps and 245(i)

Last Thursday in the Washington Post and again today,  the "245(i)"
immigraton provision was highlighted as expiring and causing major alarm
in immigrant communities. We've not mentioned it in our House SAP because
it is not in the House bill and we don't necessarily want to make it an
issue on the House side because Rep. Lamar Smith opposes any sort of
extension. However, favorable language providing an extension was
approved in the Senate-passed bill. We would want to be sure to stress
the importance and urgency of getting the Senate-approved language out of
conference and also making sure any CR would allow for this extension
temporarily. The President mentioned his support for this provision in
his remarks to the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Gala dinner last week.

For your review, 245(i) is named after a section of the 1994 State
Department appropriations bill (PL 103-317) that allows certain illegal
immigrants to apply for permanent resident visas in the U.S., rather than
having to return home to apply.  It pertains to immigrants who are in the
U.S. illegally but are on track to become legal through family or
employment sponsorship.  Immigrants in this category go to an INS office,
where an immigration officer fines them $1,000 for being here illegally,
then gives them a permanent resident visa. Last year, fees from such
applications totaled $147.5 million and this year are expected to reach
$214.5 million. A funding pot used for immigration enforcement which
House Approps Subcommittee Chair Rogers has indicated he wants to protect.

Provision 245{i) expires Sept. 30, after which permanent visas will only
be issued at American embassies and consulates abroad. At the same time,
a provision in last year's immigration law (PL 104-208), which goes into


effect Sept. 27, would bar illegal immigrants who leave the u.s. from
returning for three years, or 10 years beginning next April. Theat means
ilegal immigrants who hope to become legal will face one law requiring
them to go home to get a visa, and another that says they cannot come back.
