RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Leanne A. Shimabukuro ( CN=Leanne A. Shimabukuro/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1

CREATION DATE/TIME:24-0CT-1997 19:41:13.00

SUBJECT:   weekly

TO: Elena Kagan     CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Jose Cerda III ( CN=Jose Cerda III/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
I made a revision to the last sentence of ~his bullet.   Thanks.

Immigration-- Central Americans: House Republicans are very close to
unveiling legislative language to remedy certain problems the 1996
immigration created for Central Americans.    Although we have yet to see
the language, we have heard that it closely reflects the key principles
already outlined by Reps. Diaz-Balart and Lamar Smith: 1) grants amnesty
for Nicaraguans in the country before December 1995; 2) allows suspension
of deportation claims to be heard under the older, more lenient standards
for Guatemalans and Salvadorans; 3) retroactively applies tougher
standards of suspension cases to all non-Central Americans; and 4)
eliminates the unskilled worker category but grandfathers individuals who
are in the pipeline (about 70-75,000 visas). The Senate is preparing a
similar bill which may provide greater relief to non-Central Americans
with cases in the pipeline than the House version (see #3).   Two key
points are currently.outstanding.   First, there is disagreement between
the House and Senate on elimination of the unskilled workers category.
This provision is viewed as Chairman Smith's "price" for the legislation;
conversely, Chairman Abraham is a strong opponent of reducing legal
immigration and would be opposed ·to the precedent of eliminating a
category.  It is possible that Abraham will consider a moratorium on the
category-- which does not technically eliminate the category-- with a
commitment to take care of the existing backlog.   Second, is a concern
recently raised by the CBC regarding Haitians.   None of the legislative
proposals being developed afford relief for certain Haitians-- many of w
hom entered under circumstances similar to the Central Americans but may
be removed from the country in the near future.   In preliminary a
discussion, there seems to be White House and agency support to assist the
Haitians, as long as it does not threaten passage of the overall
legislation. The legislation was originally expected to move as part of
the D.C. appropriations bill; however Chairman Faircloth has requested it
to be inserted in the Commerce-Justice conference report.


