RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Julie A. Fernandes ( CN=Julie A. Fernandes/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 9-DEC-1997 18:54:17.00

SUBJECT:   INS reform

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Leanne A. Shimabukuro ( CN=Leanne A. Shimabukuro/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Elena,

In light of your meeting tomorrow morning with Commissioner Meissner and
OMB, the following outlines a few questions that we think we should
consider at this stage in our review:

1. As you know, there is an outstanding issue of whether we want the
budget document to include any statement about INS reform.  It is possible
that the statement could be very general (talking about our committment to
create a strong delineation between services and enforcement, to better
both, building on our sucesses, etc.) in a way that indicates our goals,
without commiting to any specifics (though OMB may want it to be more
detailed.)  Also, we should be mindful of our possible desire to get
congressional support for whatever we propose, and therefore not make a
budget statement that limits our options or that appears final.  Either
way, we should finalize as soon as we can what the WH approach will be
going into the end of January and the return of Congress.

2.  Related to the first, we should decide when (if ever?) we should begin
our legislative effort.

3. INS has almost finalized a contract bid process for an outside
management assessment of the current INS structure, the INS proposal for
reorganization, and other proposals (unclear on whether this includes CIR
recommendation). According to Bob Bach, the contract could be signed as
early as next week (though we had referred to this as the Booze Allen
review, the contract has not yet been awarded).  The assessment will take
approximately 2 months.

While the assessment could potentially help us to flesh out details with
the proposal flowing out of our review process, we are concerned that the
assessment could work at cross purposes with our efforts.   We want to be
sure that the assessment is not a tool for INS to predetermine the outcome
of our process, or something they could use to beat back our
recommendations.   Bob has assured us that their goal is not to simply to
have this, assessment rubber stamp their proposal.

Ideally, the assessment could be a tool to help us to answer difficult or
technical management questions (e.g., looking at other agency
reorganizations and management structures such as Customs). We recommend
seeking assurances from the Commissioner that they will work with us once
the contract is awarded to make sure the assessment complements, not


conflicts, with our process.


Thanks.

julie & leanne


