RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Julie A. Fernandes ( CN=Julie A. Fernandes/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 6-JAN-1998 15:48:06.00

SUBJECT:   Race Initiative

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

Paul J. weinstein Jr.   ( CN=Paul J. weinstein Jr./OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Elena,

I'm not sure what our strategy re: whether we want to more or less
connected to the process at the Race Initiative, but I wanted to share
with you some thoughts and questions that I have.

1.  I have some questions about how the President's report is being
developed, and our role in that development.  I have seen the rough
outline that Chris Edley did back in November and it is my understanding
that since then, not much has been done (at least by the folks at the PIR)
to coordinate the PIR's work with the draft outline. Moreover, the folks
at the PIR (including Judy and her top staff) do not have a clear
understanding of who is responsible for writing the report and how they
(the PIR) are going to be involved. Many people have represented to me
that Edley is writing the report, and that we (the White House) will see
it when it comes to us as a draft.  I am concerned that unless we (DPC)
participate in the development of this, we will get a product at the end
of the day that is not consistent with what we want.  In conversations
with Lin, I have also not been able to determine what Edley's timetable is
for reporting back to the PIR with progress, a more detailed outline, etc.

I recommend that we open a dialogue with Ed1ey about these issues and
further determine how we are going to proceed.  I'm not sure if you want
to (or already have) opened such a dialogue or whether you would want me
to make the call.

2.  I have been concerned about the Board meetings and whether they should
be more or less substantive.  It is my understanding that in the beginning
the meetings were less media-friendly, but more substantive (presenting
papers; gathering data, etc.). Of late, because of concerns about putting
on a more media-friendly show, the meetings have become more fluff than
meat. The Board (and the PIR staff) strongly favor meetings that offer
real discussions of substantive issues, while some others (mostly commun
ications folks here) favor more anecdotal and emotive discussions.  There
is also a growing tendency to cover more ground superficially, rather than
cover less ground more thoroughly.  I appreciate that decisions about
Board meetings are more an issue of process than policy, but there are
political/press downsides to the Board being unsatisfied with the
substance of the meetings. Also, the staff at the PIR are increasingly
disgruntled with not being involved in something (either the report or the
meetings) that is more than a show. Their discontent is not good for us.
Of course, we do not want the Board to do anything that would upset the


President's efforts or produce bad news.  However, I think that there is a
way to create Board meetings that are interesting and substantively
engaging, without being damaging to the President's efforts. We need,
however, to communicate better to the communications folks that the
meetings are not just good-news media events, but are necessarily
something with more teeth.

I am not sure how to best approach this problem.  I would like to get
Richard and Christa together to talk about the issue of how to handle the
press/media/communications issues surrounding the Board meetings, while
keeping them substantive enough to satisfy the Board, the PIR and us.

3.  In the interest of better general coordination, I have suggested to
Richard that he and I have a daily phone call (10 or 15 min.) to make sure
that we each have the other's information.  Does that sound right?

4.  Finally, in the interest of better understanding the issues/concerns
of the Board (and to help them be more plugged in to what we are doing), I
have been thinking of doing some individual outreach to Board members (in
coordination with Judy).  Any thoughts on that?

Thanks.

Julie


