 RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

 CREATOR: Michael Cohen ( CN=Michael Cohen/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

 CREATION DATE/TIME:13-JAN-1998 19:15:43.00

 SUBJECT:   Goodling testing hearing and mark-up

 TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Janet Murguia ( CN=Janet Murguia/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Tom_Kelley ( Tom_Kelley @ ed.gov @ inet [ UNKNOWN 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Scott_Fleming ( Scott_Fleming @ ed.gov @ inet [ UNKNOWN 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Marc Zuckerman in Clay's office called with the following regarding
Goodling and our testing initiative:

1. The relatively good news: Neither Becera nor Waters nor Pete Wilson
has agreed to testify at the 1/21 hearing to be held in California.
However, George Miller might go in order to hold up our end.

2. The bad news we already knew:   Goodling will mark up a bill on the
28th that will codify the appropriations report language, and explicitly
prohibit any additional work on test development or administration from
taking place without specific authorization.

Among other things, this does appear counter to the spirit of the
agreement Goodling worked out with Hilley and discussed with the
President. The assumption there was that we would fight this out again in
the context of the NAEP reauthorization, after we got the results of the
National Academy of Sciences study and learned whether other tests could
be used, etc. We didn't exactly build an enforcement mechanism into that
agreement, and Goodling undoubtedly thinks our public victory statements
have gone well beyond anything he believes the agreement supports.
Nonetheless, is there any way Hilley or someone else could call him for
breaking the deal?

3. The other unsurprising news: If and when his proposal comes to a vote,
we lose--all the Republicans and the members of the caucuses.

Marc asked if I could come over to meet with he and Gail Weiss later this
week, to talk about this, the Opportunity Zones and other pieces of our
new education package. They are hoping to get our help in figuring out if
there is anything we can do to change the dynamics for the caucuses, and
more generally to help them develop a strategy that would at least have
the caucus members and other Dem's attacking Goolding at least as much as
they attack us.

I think I ought to go ahead and meet with them, preferably with Janet or
Scott.  I don't think we can give out much information yet on all of our


spending initiatives, but might use this meeting to try to get a reading
from them about what kind of information, delivered when, would be the
most useful.

What do you think?


