RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Michael Waldman ( CN=Michael Waldman/OU=WHO/O=EOP [ WHO 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:23-FEB-1998 19:16:18.00

SUBJECT:   ncjw draft

TO: Lynn G. Cutler      CN=Lynn G. Cutler/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Morley A. Winograd ( CN=Morley A. Winograd/O=OVP @ OVP [ UNKNOWN 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Peter G. Jacoby ( CN=Peter G. Jacoby/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Michelle Crisci ( CN=Michelle Crisci/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Paul E. Begala ( CN=Paul E. Begala/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Ann F. Lewis   ( CN=Ann F. Lewis/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Maria Echaveste ( CN=Maria Echaveste/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Virginia N. Rustique ( CN=virginia N. Rustique/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Michael Cohen ( CN=Michael Cohen/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Eleanor S. Parker ( CN=Eleanor S. Parker/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Jonathan E. Smith ( CN=Jonathan E. Smith/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Deborah B. Mohile ( CN=Deborah B. Mohile/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Draft 2/20/98 7pm
PRESIDENT WILLIAM J. CLINTON
REMARKS TO THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF JEWISH WOMEN
WASHINGTON, DC
February 24, 1998

        Acknowledgments: Nan Rich; Ann Lewis, Maria Echaveste, Lynn Cutler, HHS
AssD,t Sec. for Children & Families Olivia Golden.


        In a way, ID,m here to say D&thank youD8 -- 12 years after the
fact.  In 1986, Nan Rich came to Arkansas. She told Hillary and me about a
new program begun in Tel Aviv called HIPPY, that taught parents how to
teach their young children. She asked us to bring it to Arkansas.  And she
was pretty persuasive. Today, as you know, HIPPY is one our proudest
accomplishments.   It has helped thousands of children. It has expanded to
26 states.  I am committed to sharing the message of HIPPY -- that
learning must begin at birth and continue throughout a lifetime, that
every parent must take responsibility, and that no child should be left
behind -- to every family in every community. I thank you for your
leadership, your inspiration, and your support.

        The graduates of HIPPY and all todayD,s children will live out
their lives in the 21st Century. This is a moment of hope and
possibility unparalleled in our history.   And it is not a time to rest;
it is a time to build. We have it in our power to strengthen our nation
for the 21st Century so that all our people can join in this moment of
hope.

        I know you will visit Capitol Hill this afternoon.  And I hope you
will add your voice to the demand for campaign finance reform. For years,
special interests have blocked campaign finance reform.  Today and
tomorrow, the Senate will vote, up or down, on the McCain-Feingold bill
real, bipartisan reform.  And today thereD,s a breakthrough: a group of
Republicans led by Sens. Olympia Snowe and Jim Jeffords have announced
support for the bill. A vote for McCain-Feingold is a vote to end soft
money.  If a majority of the Senate backs this bill, then only the
obstruction of a minority will keep campaign reform from moving forward.

        Today, I want to talk to you about the greatest challenge our
nation faces: the work we still must do to educate our children, to care
for them, to challenge them, and to give them the brightest possible
future.   Let me begin by underscoring the urgency of this mission.

        Today, Secretary Riley is announcing the results of the Third
International Math and Science Study.  This test measures the performance
of American children against children all around the world.  Past TIMSS
tests have shown that in the fourth grade, our children do quite well.  By
the eighth grade, they begin to lag. And by the 12th grade, their
performance plummets. According to the test results announced today, U.S.
12th graders outperform only two out of the 21 nations studied -- Cyprus,
and South Africa.

        This is unacceptable.  The Information Age is above all the
Education Age.  And America cannot go strong into the 21st Century until
all our children can read, until all our children can master the basics,
until all our children have the skills and the self confidence they need.
And that is a challenge for us, their parents.

        Our responsibility to teach our children begins in the earliest
years, even before our children go to school. Governments donD,t raise
children; parents do. And we must help parents meet their
responsibilities at home and at work.

        The first month I took office, I signed into law the Family and
Medical Leave Act.  Up to 15 million Americans have taken advantage of
this law to care for a newborn child or a sick relative.  Over the past
five years, we have expanded Head Start and extended child care to 1
million children. Last year, I signed a bipartisan balanced budget
agreement that extended health coverage to five million uninsured children


-- made college affordable for every American -- gave parents a $500 per
child tax credit.  It was a balanced budget that reflected our values.

        Now, I ask our nation to rise to the challenge of helping parents
find and afford quality child care. Today, most families rely on two
incomes to make ends meet.  Too many parents juggle unstable child care
arrangements with the uncompromising demands of work.  Five million
children return to empty homes after school, increasing the chances that
they will try drugs, alcohol and tobacco or be victims of crime. Child
care costs can drain as much as a quarter of a working familyn,s income.
And good child care is often hard to find.

         So my balanced budget for 1999 launches a comprehensive and
fiscally-responsible plan to make child care more affordable and
accessible, raise its quality, and assure its safety.

        We must make child care more affordable, doubling the number of
low income children receiving subsidies, and giving 3 million more working
families an expanded child care tax credit.  If Congress passes my plan, a
family of four making $35,000 a year with high child care costs will no
longer pay a penny in federal income tax.

        We must improve the safety and quality of child care.  For bad
providers, there should be criminal background checks. And for good
providers, there should be scholarships. These people care for our
children, and they deserve our support.

         We must recognize that childcare isnU,t about babysitting -- itU,s
about learning.   As researchers told us at last yearJ,s White House
Conference on Early Learning, how we care for our children in the earliest
years will affect their emotional and intellectual development for the
rest of their lives.   So I am proposing an Early Learning Fund to reduce
child-to-staff ratios in child care centers, to train child care workers,
and to educate parents.    As you know, when parents are taught to teach
their infants and toddlers colors, numbers, and letters, their lives can
be transformed forever.   If my child care plan passes, the lessons taught
through HIPPY can be taught in homes across America.

        And we must make sure that every child has somewhere to go after
school. Most juvenile crime takes place between the time the schoolbell
rings and the time parents come home.  So we should expand before-and
after-school programs to help some 500,000 children say no to drugs and
alcohol and crime -- and yes to reading, soccer, computers and their
future.

        All of these steps will help our children prepare to learn. And I
ask your support for a comprehensive effort to raise standards and
expectations in our schools. Teachers must be better trained; students
must take more challenging courses; exams must be more rigorous. We need
nothing less than a new ethic of accountability in America[],s schools.

        That is why I have proposed a balanced budget that makes the
largest commitment to K-12 education in history.

        We must reduce class size in America. Today, in too many
classrooms, teachers are supervising more than 30 children at a time.
Smaller class size leads to stronger performance, especially for poorer
children, and the benefits last throughout a school career.  So we must
set and meet a national goal: every first, second, and third grader should
be in a class of 18 or less. My balanced budget will hire 100,000 new


teachers -- teachers that pass state competency tests. And it will
provide tax cuts to help modernize or rebuild 5000 schools.

        And we must move toward national standards to make sure all our
children master the basics. Last year, we took the first steps toward
national standards in 4th-grade reading and 8th-grade math.  I ask every
state to test their children on these basics    and I ask for your support.

        We must end the destructive practice of social promotion.  We do
our children no favors when we pass them from grade to grade without
mastering the material. Our goal must not be to hold students back but to
lift them up.

        And we must continue to connect every classroom and library in
America to the Information Superhighway by the Year 2000.  If we do, for
the very first time in history, children from the poorest inner city, the
most isolated rural area, and the most affluent suburb will have access to
the same universe of knowledge.

        And we will continue to make college available to every young
American. Over the past five years we have expanded Pell Grant
scholarships, made student loans cheaper and easier to repay, and given
families tax cuts to pay for tuition, for the very first time, every
American can go to college regardless of cost.  I ask your help: spread
the word -- tell your friends, your neighbors, your children, that they
can go on to college. We can make college as universal in the 21st
Century as high school is today. And that will change the face of America.

        Yes, the challenges are different than they were in 1893 when the
NCJW was founded -- but in so many ways, they are the same.   Bringing
millions of new immigrants into the American mainstream. Harnessing the
power of economic change so that it works for our people.   Entering a new
century with confidence that the American Dream of opportunity for all,
responsibility from all, can be made real for our children.

        The Talmud says: Every blade of grass has its angel that bends
over it and whispers, O&grow, grow.08 Our children are those blades of
grass. And we must be their better angels. Thank you, and God bless you
all.


