RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Michael Cohen ( CN=Michael Cohen/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1

CREATION DATE/TIME:18-APR-1997 11:09:18.00

SUBJECT:   Weekly report

TO: Elena Kagan     CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett    CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Here are my contributions:

National Standards and Testing Initiative: We are continuing to identify
states to sign up for the 4th and 8th grade testing initiatve. Gov. Weld
announced      at an education meeting with Gov. Hunt in North Carolina
    that Massachusetts will participate in the testing initiative.  Last
week the West Virginia State Board of Education voted to participate; the
State Board is now working to secure Gov. Underwood's support as well.
Secretary Riley has recently met with Gov. Carnahan in Missouri and Gov.
Dean in Vermont, and believes that both states will be willing to sign up
shortly.   New York State Commissioner of Education Rick Mills is working
to secure the support of the State Board of Regents and Gov. Pataki. We
believe this may be possible by early June.  We expect to identify several
additional states in the coming weeks, and to propose a White House event
to highlight the participation of this new group of states.

Incentives for A Career in Teaching:   In preparation for the Service
Summit, DPC is working with the Education Department to develop an
initiative, similar to the Police. Corps, that would provide incentives for
young people to make a career of service as school teachers. This
initiative will likely target inner city and possibly rural schools where
the shortage of well prepared teachers is the greatest, and provide
scholarships or other f~nancial incentives to attract and retain well
prepared individuals.


