RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Julie A. Fernandes ( CN=Julie A. Fernandes/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 4-MAR-1998 18:02:52.00

SUBJECT:   EEOC

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Elena,
As a result of yesterday's hearing, EEOC believes that there is an opening
to work with Gingrich's staff to secure their budget request.  They want
to get our leg. person working with them to direct the effort. Who would
that be?

Also, there is the knotty question of testing. According to Fawell (in a
conversation with Igasaki (Acting EEOC Chair) after the hearing) the
Republicans want the agency not to spend any money on testing in FY99. As
you know, the EEOC has a testing pilot program that is supposed to be
completed by the end of this fiscal year.  They had no plans to do any
more with this program during FY99, and there is nothing in the
President's FY99 budget for testing programs for the EEOC.  However, the
agency had anticipated spending some time after the pilot is finished
analyzing the results and doing long term planning for next steps, if
any.  So, in addition to leg. help, they want some guidance about the
general parameters of our view of making some kind of deal on this.

Until they complete this year's pilot, the EEOC won't even know if they
can run an effective employment testing program.  It does not, therefore,
seem a big concession to agree that the EEOC will not spend money on
testing during FY99, as long as we do not in any way signal that testing
is not a legitimate tool for effective civil rights enforcement. Of
course, the attack on testing at the EEOC could be the prelude to a
similar attack at HUD.  HUD does have $10 million in the FY99 budget to
develop and implement a nation-wide housing rental and sales testing
program.  I have not heard anything about a strategy to go after this.

julie


