RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Nicole R. Rabner ( CN=Nicole R. Rabner/OU=WHO/O=EOP [ WHO 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 6-MAR-1998 14:45:21.00

SUBJECT:   directive on federally-sponsored child care

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Neera Tanden ( CN=Neera Tanden/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
You asked that we describe the Jeffords/Gillman legislation and how our
directive will interact with it.  Jeffords legislation, called the
"Quality Child Care for Federal Employees Act" has several provisions that
would affect all federally-sponsored, non-military child care:

1.  State and local licensing requirements:  The legislation requires that
federal child care centers comply with state and local licensing
requirements no later than 6 months of the date of enactment of the
legislation.

2.  Health, safety and facility standards:  The legislation requires GSA
to issue regulations establishing standards relating to health, safety,
facilities, facility design, and other aspects of child care that the
Administrator determines to be appropriate for child care centeres in
executive facilities, and requires federal child care centers to comply
with the standards.

3. Accreditation Standards:  The legislation requires GSA to issue
regulations for Federal child care facilities to achieve accreditation
within 5 years of enactment of t~e Act.

4.  GSA ensures compliance for all federal child care centers:  The
legislation requires that GSA evaluate the compliance of all agencies with
its regulations (which include the health and safety standards, a
requirement of meeting state and local licensing requirements, as well as
the accreditation requirements).  Right now, GSA is in charge of 109
centers and the other 127 non-military centers are controlled by the
federal agencies that sponsor them.

5.  Beefs up Licensing Standards and Accreditation for Non-Executive
Branch Federal Child Care Facilities: The legislative and judicial
branches operate 5 centers combined.

6.  Authorizes $900,000 and allows GSA to be reimbursed by other federal
agencies for its services.

POTUS DIRECTIVE:
The President's directive dovetails with the Jeffords/Gillman legislation
with respect to accreditation and is more ambitious in this area.  While
Jeffords' bill requires compliance within 5 years of enactment of the
bill, the President's directive asks that all centers in the Executive
Branch be accredited by the year 2000.



In addition to the accreditation requirement, the President's directive
will: (I) ensure proper background checks of workers in
federally-sponsored child care; (II) urge partnerships among federal
agencies and with the private sectors to improve child care quality and
affordability; and (III) ensure that all federal workers have full
information on child care benefits and options available to them.


