RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Edward W. Correia ( CN=Edward W. Correia/OU=WHO/O=EOP [ WHO 1 )

CREATION DATE/TlME:16-MAR-1998 15:02:54.00

SUBJECT:   Higher Education Self-Assessment Guide

TO: Minyon Moore ( CN=Minyon Moore/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Maria Echaveste ( CN=Maria Echaveste/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Sylvia M. Mathews ( CN=Sylvia M. Mathews/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Peter Rundlet ( CN=Peter Rundlet/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Scott R. Palmer ( CN=Scott R. Palmer/OU=PIR/O=EOP @ EOP [ PIR 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Dawn M. Chirwa ( CN=Dawn M. Chirwa/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
         We have tentatively identified a group of persons to review the
self-assessment guide on admissions before it is made public. The group
includes: the American Council on Education, American Association of
University Professors, LCCR (Wade Henderson and Nancy Zirkin), the NAACP
Legal Defense Fund, MAALDEF, National Women's Law Center, National
Association of College and University Attorneys, and, at the request of
DOJ, a group of seven deans indentified by the Department of Justice who
are meeting soon with the AG.

        We will stress that the document should not be made public, that
we are making no commitments on release dates, and that comments must be
back to us within two weeks. Also, no individual or university involved in
litigation will be asked to comment. We'll evaluate what comes in and --
we hope -- finalize the document for release. (Additional DOJ review may
be necessary if revisions are substantive.) If you have concerns about any
of our potential reviewers, have ideas for other reviewers, or have
comments on the process, please let me know. (The release will have to
done after considering the possible impact on the higher education
reauthorization bill. We can deal with that issue after the comments are
in. )


