RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Richard Socarides ( CN=Richard Socarides/OU=WHO/O=EOP [ WHO 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:18-MAR-1998 08:56:12.00

SUBJECT:   Congressional Record: Wellstone Bill (continued)

TO: Robert N. Weiner ( CN=Robert N. Weiner/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
---------------------- Forwarded by Richard Socarides/WHO/EOP on 03/18/98
08:55 AM ---------------------------



        Doug.Case @ sdsu.edu
        03/17/98 10:04:00 PM
Record Type: Record

To: Stuart D. Rosenstein, Richard Socarides
cc:
Subject: Congressional Record: Wellstone Bill (continued)


CONGRESSIONAL RECORD Partner stories continued:

Second case
    Debra and Sara have been living together in a committed relationship for
five years. They own a home together and have made other major purchases
together. Debra and Sara had a child (Michael) 2 years ago. Sara gave
birth to
the child. Debra's employer offers health and life insurance benefits to
domestic partners, and children of domestic partners are considered
dependents
of the employee for purposes of insurance coverage. Sara is self employed.
Michael, Sara and Debra are all covered by insurance as a family through
Debra's employer's plan. Six months ago Debra was recruited by a competing
business because of her unique skill and experience, and was offered a job.
The job would be a step up for Debra in the advancement of her career. The
pay
is about the same, but the prospective employer does not offer health and
life
benefits to unmarried partners and would not cover Michael as a dependent
of
Debra's. For these reasons, Debra decides to decline the offer of
employment
and delays career advancement as a result. The competing business misses
out
on Debra's unique skill and experience.

Third case
   Joe is a student at a private college. His partner Jim works for a
mid-size
accounting firm. Jim's employer does not offer benefits to unmarried
partners/dependents of its employees. Jim and Joe can't afford to pay the


$160.00 per month for Joe's health insurance, and since Joe is only 38
years
old, they hope the risk of health problems is low, and decide that he will
have to go without coverage. Within a year,· Joe is diagnosed with Crohn's
disease and requires surgery, treatment and ongoing medications that are
very
expensive. Joe quits school under the financial pressure to look for a job
that offers health benefits. Joe
gets a job quickly and applies for health coverage, but the insurer will
not
cover any costs associated with Joe's pre-existing condition of Crohn's
disease.

PERSONAL STATEMENTS--UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA
    Selected personal statements of gay and lesbian University employees on
the
impact of not having equal benefits.
    1. The University should honor its nondiscrimination policy statement by
eliminating all polices that discriminate on the basis of sexual
orientation.
The University should recognize domestic partnership couples as they do
married couples. I simply want for my family what a married employee can
count
on for his/her family. If, as an employee they receive a benefit, so
should I.
The solution is to provide similar benefits to domestic partnership
couples or
remove the benefits from married couples. As employees of the University we
should have the same
treatment. Gays and lesbians employed by the University have been
systematically excluded from benefits that have been provided to their
heterosexual colleagues with whom they work side by side, sometimes
performing
exactly the same work. That is very wrong and needs to be corrected!
    On a personal level, for the 25 years I have been employed at the
University I have been denied the full employment status and benefits
provided
to my heterosexual colleagues. This has cost me dearly financially, and has
sent me the message that who I love is not valued. This treatment tells me
that my family concerns are not important to the University. Although I am
also an employee of the University I am not provided with the same health
care
security for my family as are my married colleagues.
    Finally, as I approach retirement, I am outraged to find out that my
partner can not defer taxes upon receiving my retirement money in the case
of
my death as a married spouse is able to do. This amounts to a huge
financial
loss for my partner and other gay and lesbian employees and their part~ers.
Imagine your spouse having to pay 28% of $250,000 ($70,000) or 31% of
$300,000
($93,000) right off the top, thus diminishing the amount received by our
partners to $180,000 and $207,000 respectfully. This is a concrete example
for
two of us currently long time employees of the University and who are also
in
long term domestic partnership relationships. In addition, both couples
have
registered under the city of Minneapolis domestic partner ordinance.
    I am angry, disappointed and frustrated that the Board of Regents,


President Hasselmo and the administrative leadership of the University have
not taken action to enforce the University's nondiscrimination policy. The
University should be playing a leadership role in righting this wrong,
first,
for its employees and then in initiating changes for the state of Minnesota
and in urging Federal tax law changes.

    2. When my partner's mother unexpectedly committed suicide five years
ago,
I was scheduled to leave that morning for an out-of-state business trip.
I'll
never forget my struggle over how I would approach my supervisor to request
permission to either cancel the trip or to send someone in my place. I was
up
for a promotion and I was afraid that to acknowledge my sexual preference
to
this person, who I knew held fundamental religious values, would
compromise my
work and my livelihood.
    I ultimately equivocated and asked if I could send someone else on the
trip, because my 'housemate--slash(/)--best friend needed my support. As
you
might guess, this didn't sound sufficiently persuasive and I left on the
trip
 (shortened by two days) with the 'blessing' of my partner, who, of course,
was
in shock. I succumbed to fear and in doing so compromised my own humanity
and
my bond with my partner. It is still deeply painful for me to remember the
coerciveness of the situation, the fear and intimidation that I experienc
ed,
and my own personal failing.
    It was one of the most demeaning and dehumanizing experiences of my
life. I
ask those of you who are married to imagine having to make such a choice:
imagine having to ask permission to be with your grieving partner. There a
re
no reparations the University can offer me to recast the past. I would,
however, like to think that the Board of Regents and central administrators
have the compassion and courage to act now so that others will not be
confronted with such a choice.

   3. The University is discriminating on the basis of sexual orientation.
My
family doesn't receive the same benefits as families of heterosexuals.
   I have had the Group Health Plan benefits package for nearly sixteen
years.
I began family coverage when I married (1978), adding my spouse at a
nominal
monthly fee to the single coverage I already carried (which was paid in
full
by the University). When my children were born (1983, 1986) the cost of
family
coverage didn't change. In fact, the cost of family coverage is constant no
matter how many dependents you have on the policy. I was amazed to learn
that
the cost of family coverage (including coverage for my ex-husband) remained
the same even after
getting a divorce. My ex-husband remained on my insurance policy--at no
additional cost--even though we were not legally married.


    I am now in a committed lesbian relationship. My partner and I have a
relationship every bit as stable and committed as a marriage, but we are
not
entitled to the same benefits I enjoyed when I was married.
    My partner had been teaching part-time in a private school for two years
before she became eligible for health insurance through her employer. Two
weeks before her insurance was to take effect she was stricken with severe
abdominal pain. Though we considered 'toughing it out until her insurance
kicked in, it became increasingly clear that she needed to be treated
immediately. She had a large, twisted ovarian tumor removed in October,
1990.
By the time of the surgery, her insurance was in place. We breathed a sigh
of
relief.
    Months later we learned that because her pain started (and was briefly
treated) before her insurance began, the claim for coverage for the surgery
and hospital stay were disallowed because there was a pre-existing
condition
exclusion in her insurance policy. We are now faced with over $5,000 (plus
12%
interest per year) in medical bills. That may not seem like a lot of money
to
some people, but it certainly is to us. And it's money that wouldn't have
had
to be spent at all if she had been on my family coverage all along.
    So why is it that my ex-husband (no legal relation) was entitled to
continue receiving benefits until he married, but my life partner has had
to
go without medical insurance? The answer is simple--discrimination.
    4. One of my colleagues, a male who is heterosexual, received his Ph.D.
the
same year I did. We have taught the same number of years and were tenured
here
the same year. However, he has received health benefits for his wife and
two
children during this time. I believe that would add up to several thousand
dollars more that he has received from this University than I have. My
partner
is self employed part time and works at the University only to receive
benefits. I feel that I am discriminated against based on my sexual
preference
and have suffered
significant financial loss by having to pay for health benefits for my
partner
and our child.
    5. I feel discredited in all' but the most professional senses since my
University will not acknowledge the centrality of my relationship with my
partner of 14 plus years. This level of constant and costly discrimination
makes any positive responses to me from the institution bittersweet at best
and hypocritical at worst. My family life is erased and made invisible by
an
institution of learning which tauts acceptance of diversity and pursuit of
truth. When I'm not furious, I'm terribly sad.

    6. It is very demoralizing to see the incredible benefits that my
married
colleagues (heterosexual) get and know that it will be a fight to get the
same. My partner is self-employed and health coverage is astronomical for
self-employed people. In order to buy a plan similar to that at the U, it
would cost us $5-$7000 a year. Since it's so costly, my partner does not


have
very good health coverage and as a result I am very concerned about what
would
happen if a serious health crisis
occurs.
    So I am not just losing the $1500 or so the U would payout to cover her
because of the lack of recognition, I will have to pay $5-$7000 per year
more
than most of my colleagues. I view this as if I received that much less
salary
per year. How can the U have sexual orientation, gender and marital status
in
the equal opportunity statement and not consider this discrimination?
    I wrote a letter to Gus Donhower when I heard of the proposed changes in
health coverage. One option proposed was that those people covered by their
spouses' employment could get the cash equivalent of coverage instead of
being
covered by the U. I suggested that if that were done, then those of us
without
spouses or dependents should certainly get the cash equivalent of
spousal/dependent coverage. It seems an obvious parallel to me. He
responded
by saying it was an interesting idea but there's no money for this added
benefit. Well, I think that's like
saying it would be nice to pay blacks or women what we pay men, but we just
don't have the money. One has no choice but to find the money. If there
really
isn't enough then some benefits may need to be removed from those who have
them, in order to provide for those who don't. Maybe people with more than
two
children need to pay for their health insurance, or perhaps the cost for an
employee for spousal coverage needs to increase. The current
discrimination is
so clear to me (of course I'm not a lawyer) that I wonder if a lawsuit
could
successfully challenge the University's non-compliance with its equal
opportunity statement.
    At this point, my commitment, dedication, willingness to work hard under
increasingly difficult pressure, is affected by my feeling of not being
seen,
recognized, and treated equally to my heterosexual colleagues. Right now,
it's
hard not to feel taken advantageof

7. My partner returned to school to pursue a second advanced degree. She
attends the University of Minnesota. At the same time, one of my married
colleagues' spouse returned to school. Their health insurance profile did
not
change at all. Ours changed dramatically. Because I cannot get health
insurance for my partner of 10 years (longer than my married colleague), we
have paid 2,500 per year in health insurance and routine health care out of
pocket. Over three years, the tax on being a lesbian has been $7,500. I
realize of course, that the cost of my health insurance would have
increased
during this period, so the net cost to us would have been above my current
health insurance but below $7,500. This economic burden is a clear example
of
otherwise similarly situated people being treated differently solely on the
basis of sexual orientation.
    Let me add that I do not think that the University should require


public
registration of partnerships to receive partnership benefits unless the
state
revokes the so-called 'sodomy' law. To ask for such registration imposes
the
acknowledgement of legal risk as a cost for benefits. In addition, if
reduced
tuition is available for other family members, this benefit should be
extended
to gay and lesbian families as well.

8. The University considers me 'single'. As a 'single' person, I subsidize
both married couples and individuals with children. But as a domestic
partner
I should be able to enjoy the same benefits as other 'married' couples.
    Last summer my partner required minor surgery for skin cancer. Because
she
was a substitute teacher, she had no coverage. As a result we became
responsible for the bills. This created more financial and emotional
distress
for us which I am certain impacted my own productivity.
    Another issue I have is that it seems the administration wants us to
provide documentation (e.g. registration, affidavits, etc.) to prove we are
indeed a couple. Does the University require married couples to provide an
affidavit or their marriage license when applying for benefits?
    Furthermore, the domestic partnership applications become public
records.
Given the history of the discriminatory treatment meted out on gays and
lesbians in ours and other cultures, I would not want to be that public in
my
sexual orientation, especially in a state without a human rights amendment
protecting us.

9. How do I feel about the University's treatment of domestic partners? Not
positive! My partner and I each have one dependent. We must each pay for
family benefits which is a huge commitment, especially since my partner is
self-employed and self-insured. Many of us are on federal benefits. If the
University changes its policy we'll need help so that we can move to
University benefits.

10. I feel that if the University is unable to provide health benefits to
unmarried partners they should also refuse benefits to married partners and.
only cover under age dependents. I consider the lack of these benefits to
be
an unequal and discriminatory pay scale, with married employees receiving
higher compensation levels just because they are married.

************************************************************************

This message has been forwarded as a free informational service.  Please do
not publish, or post in a public place on the Internet, copyrighted
material without permission and attribution.   (Note: Press releases are
fine to reprint.  Don't reprint wire stories, such as Associated Press
stories, in their entirety unless you subscribe to that wire service.)
Forwarding of this material should not necessarily be construed as an
endorsement of the content.  In fact, sometimes messages from anti-gay
organizations are forwarded as "opposition research."



 ==================== ATTACHMENT 1 ====================
 ATT CREATION TIME/DATE:   0 00:00:00.00

 TEXT:
 RFC-822-headers:
 Received: from conversion.pmdf.eop.gov by PMDF.EOP.GOV (PMDF V5.1-9 #22921)
  id <01IUSEATYHE8000RIT@PMDF.EOP.GOV>; Tue, 17 Mar 1998 22:05:14 EST
 Received: from Storm.EOP.GOV by PMDF.EOP.GOV (PMDF V5.1-9 #22921)
  with ESMTP id <OlIUSEAMHGSGOOOSSN@PMDF.EOP.GOV>; Tue,
  17 Mar 1998 22:05:03 -0500 (EST)
 Received: from mai1.sdsu.edu ([130.191.25.1))
  by STORM.EOP.GOV (PMDF V5.1-9 #6879)
  with ESMTP id <01IUSE9MIVJ00009LJ@STORM.EOP.GOV>; Tue,
  17 Mar 1998 22:04:14 -0500 (EST)
 Received: from [130.191.242.121) ([130.191.242.121))
  by mai1.sdsu.edu (8.8.7/8.8.7) with ESMTP id TAA13335; Tue,
  17 Mar 1998 19:02:44 -0800 (PST)
 X-Sender: dcase@mai1.sdsu.edu
 ================== END ATTACHMENT 1 ==================


