RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Thomas L. Freedman ( CN=Thomas L. Freedman/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:25-MAR-1998 20:08:36.00

SUBJECT:   Tobacco Farmers Update

TO: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan (CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Mary L. Smith ( CN=Mary L. Smith/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Ford's staff says Ford, Frist and Hollings are planning on telling McCain
on Friday that they have draft language based on the Ford/Robb compromise
we have been discussing and asking that it be included in McCain's bill.
Of course, we have heard they are close to presenting this before, but
this sounds pretty legitimate. The provision would cost $2.1 billion a
year, and include an $8 buyout for flue cured.    Dallas Smith will do a
section by section as soon as language is available and work with OMB to
do an internal cost projection.  Helms came close to signing on to the
position this afternoon, but has evidently decided he still is not
convinced a comprehensive bill will ultimately move. When he does agree
and the measure is tinkered with, it seems likely there will eventually be
close to a consensus of the 12 tobacco state senators to sign on.
(Senators like Faircloth will wait for Helms). Interestingly, Helms says
he surveyed the Caucus and thinks he can't get enough R votes for such a
generous package -- so according to Ford it is possible the package could
be subject to downsizing pressure with Helms helping to broker that.   In
addition, we (along with Dallas and an OMB person) met again with the
leading flue cured grower groups today who say they are pushing Helms to
back the Ford position.   The farmers say that when the provision gets
included in McCain (and if liability is in)  they will ultimately be
willing to lobby for the whole comprehensive bill and expect their
membership to favor it as well.  I've given all this detail to Cynthia and
discussed our reaction.   If the numbers check out, when we get asked I
think we can say that this is one way that satisfies the President's fifth
principle on protecting farmers (but not saying it is the only one we'd
endorse). Dallas agreed with this line.


