 RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

 CREATOR: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

 CREATION DATE/TIME: 8-APR-1998 17:33:19.00

 SUBJECT:   Re: 5pm tobacco draft

 TO: Elena Kagan   CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Lowell A. Weiss ( CN=Lowell A. Weiss/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Good job moving up the comments on today.   I think the first point needs
to be more resolute: Let me be clear -- I am going to do everything in my
power to put politics aside and pass comprehensive tobacco legislation
this year. There is powerful bipartisan momentum to get this done, and we
will not let anything stand in the way of doing right by America's
children (or America's tobacco farmers) ...

 I'll send you more later.   Thanks.




 Laura Emmett
 04/08/98 05:21':31 PM
 Record Type:     Record

 TO:      Bruce N. Reed/OPD/EOP
 cc:
 Subject:         5pm tobacco draft

 FYI-
 ---------------------- Forwarded by Laura Emmett/WHO/EOP on 04/08/98 05:21
 PM ---------------------------



 Lowell A. Weiss
 04/08/98 05:07:22 PM
 Record Type:    Record

 To:      See the distribution list at the bottom of this message
 cc:
 Subject:         5pm tobacco draft

Draft 4/8/98 5pm
PRESIDENT WILLIAM J. CLINTON
REMARKS ON TOBACCO AT CARROLL COUNTY HIGH SCHOOL
CARROLLTON, KY
April 9, 1998
        Acknowledgments: Sec. Glickman; Gov. Paul Patton; Sen. Ford [His work on


the tobacco bill that is now moving through the Senate has been
remarkable.  He has fought day in and day out to make sure tobacco farmers
and their communities will not get hurt.  In the Senate, he has served
this great state longer than any other leader. And like your Cats, his
alma mater, he is leaving as number one.]

        ItU,s great to be in Wildcat country.  I watched the Comeback Cats
beat the Utes while I was flying from Botswana to Senegal. The Utes had
eliminated the Razorbacks, so I was pulling for the blue and white all the
way.

         And itO,s great to be in Panther country [Carroll County HighO,s
mascot].   Last time I was here was in 1992, when I was rolling through
these beautiful hills with Al Gore on our first bus tour.   You made me
feel right at home back then and youO,re doing just the same today.

         IO,m also pleased to see how youO,ve recovered from the Flood of
0+97.  It was just over a year ago that the rains were pouring down and
Eagle Creek and the Kentucky River were spilling out allover this county
like NoaheJ,s flood.  But neighbors and friends reached out to help those
in need.   Old fashioned values pulled you through.  You made America very
proud.

        The reason I came here to Carrollton today is to talk to you about
a subject that could not be more important to the future of all of you
students, to the future of this state, and to the future of this nation.
I came here to talk about the future of tobacco.  I know thereO,s been a
lot of talk about what the tobacco legislation in Congress will involve
and where we are in the process. Today, in addition to listening to the
concerns of people in this community, I wanted to explain the process in
detail to parents and children alike.  But before we go even one step
further I want to make two vital points very clear.

        First, the tobacco legislation is alive and well.  It will be
easier to cut teen smoking if the tobacco companies work with us rather
than against us, but we are committed to doing whatO,s right for
AmericaO,s children either way.

        Sec~nd, the legislation we seek is not about politics, or money,
or seeking revenge against the tobacco industry.  This legislation moving
forward in Congress will not put the tobacco companies out of business.
It will simply put them out of the business of selling cigarettes to
kids.  Personally, I do not believe itO,s wise for adults to smoke.  But
that is their own business.  Smoking by young people is a different matter
entirely -- and that is where we must draw the line.

        Third, we will not abandon tobacco farmers.  They havenO,t done
anything wrong. Theyu,ve been growing a legal crop.   It is not they who
have been marketing tobacco products to children. TheyD,re good,
hard-working, tax-paying citizens -- most of them laboring from sun-up to
sun-down on small family farms.  We will stand with KentuckyD,s
communities to pass legislation that makes sense for everyone.   If it
doesnO,t protect farmers and their communities, I wonD,t sign it.
Remember: we wouldnO;t let this community down when the flood waters were
rising out of control. The national government was here in Kentucky,
helping you clean up, working to make everyone whole. We will do it again
with this tobacco legislation.  Farmers didnD,t create the problem of
youth smoking.  But I promise you this: if you work with us, farmers and
their communities will be included in the solution.


        And now IO,d like to explain why I believe it is so important that
we work together to pass comprehensive tobacco legislation. Just last
week, the Centers for Disease Control released a disturbing report.   It
found that more than 40% of teenagers now smoke or chew tobacco.  Mr.
Marcum [the principal) tells me itO,s probably even higher here.  IO,m not
here to scold those of you who do smoke.  But I will tell you this:   Io,m
not going to rest until we bring the number of teen smokers way down.
Today, 3,000 young people will start smoking. A thousand of them will
have their lives shortened as a result.  We are simply wasting precious
lives.

        ItO,s clear whato,s going on.  One major factor is peer pressure.
Today, I challenge you students to help each other resist the pressure
to stand together and to take responsibility for your futures.  If you
look at the National Champion Wildcats, itO,s clear each one of those
players had a dream -- he wanted to win it all.  The Wildcats stood
together as a team.  They resisted outside pressures. And they recognized
that the body is as sacred a gift as the spirit and the mind.  You think
the National Champion Wildcats could run the court the way they do if they
smoked? Not a chance.   But whether you play basketball or not, the
message is the same: smoking robs dreams.

         The other major factor in the rise of teen smoking is the lure of
sophisticated, multi-million-dollar marketing campaigns.  Now, the law
says that tobacco companies cano,t advertise tobacco products on
television or radio, but you canO,t escape the ads anywhere else -- in
magazines, sports centers, billboards.  Toy race cars are still emblazoned
with tobacco brand names, even through we know adults donO,t buy many toy
race cars.

        In the early 1990s, Joe Camel alone had an advertising budget of
$75 million. And thato,s a pretty good investment from the tobacco
companiesO, point of view.  How many of you have younger brothers and
sisters? Well, if national statistics hold true, I bet more of them can
recognize Joe Camel than Mickey Mouse.

        I believe weo,ve all got a remarkable opportunity to close the
books on 30 years of calculated marketing to kids. And that is why I am
working with Sen. Ford and his Senate colleagues to pass a bill that will
make reducing youth smoking everyoneO,s bottom line.

        Last week, in an historic and resounding 19-to-1 vote, a key
Senate committee gave its stamp of approval to comprehensive legislation
sponsored by Sen. John McCain, a Republican, and Sen. Fritz Hollings, a
Democrat, that would cut youth smoking by half over the next decade here
in Kentucky and allover the country. And thanks in great measure to Sen.
FordO,s leadership, the bill will not let tobacco farmers down.

        Last September, when I reviewed the settlement ag.reement reached
by the Attorneys General, I was very disappointed to see that there was no
mention of farmers and what might happen to them if the settlement became
law.   So when I laid out my five principles of what absolutely had to be
in any comprehensive tobacco legislation, I said we had to protect farmers
and their communities.  IO,m happy to say that the farmer provision Sen.
Ford has proposed meets this commitment. The bill he helped prepare recogn
izes that tobacco has a very high return per acre and, therefore, you
canO,t just tell tobacco farmers to go and plant soybeans on their land.
It recognizes that you canO,t uproot tobacco without uprooting the family
farm.  This morning, I met a woman named Mattie Mack.  SheD,s 61 years old
and has raised 38 foster children while growing tobacco -- not one of whom


smokes. We canO,t abandon her or the children she has raised. We must
reduce youth smoking, but weO,re not going to do it by devastating our f
arming communities.

         We still have work to do on the legislation in the Senate.  Above
all, we need to put in place tough penalties that will ensure that the
tobacco industry has a clear financial interest in stopping youth
smoking.   But Sen. McCain and his committee have helped move this nation
in the right direction. -

        Unfortunately, it appears that some tobacco industry executives
are trying to block the way.  Yesterday, tobacco industry executives gave
speeches to protest the legislation moving through Congress.  This was no
surprise.  ItO,s in their interest to object to the bill now to prevent it
from getting even tougher.

        But I believe this is not the time to issue threats.  This is the
time for the industry to put the past behind them and help all of us,
including thousands of family farmers, plan for the future.  Most
important, this is the time to stop children from picking up a habit that
kills.  If we move forward with the legislation in the Senate, in Kentucky
alone it will stop nearly 60,000 kids from starting to use tobacco over
the next five years, and save almost 20,000 lives. We simply cannot
afford to let this opportunity go up in smoke.

        This is a remarkable time to be alive.  This is a golden moment to
be a student in Kentucky.  WeO,ve opened the door to college for every
student in this auditorium, thanks to new grants and HOPE Scholarships
that your guidance counselors can help you learn all about.   The chemical
and steel industries are booming here in Carroll County; theyO,re
practically guaranteeing jobs to students here who are getting involved in
your remarkable work-study program and gaining essential math, science,
and technical skills.

             This is also a golden   moment for our country.    We have the
best economy in a generation.  The   crime rate has been falling for five
years in a row, for the first time   in a quarter century.   We have the
lowest welfare rolls in 27 years.    More families own homes than ever
before.

        But this is not a time to sit back and relax. As you know all too
well, you donn,t wait until the flood rains are pouring down before you
fix the roof.   In other words, we canO,t wait for another generation of
children to get sick before we get serious about bringing the rate of
youth,smoking down.  But let me be clear: the way to fix our roof is not
by making a hole in our neighborO,s.  We will fix the problem of youth
smoking without making life tougher than it already is for our
hard-working family farmers.  If we work together, we will solve this
problem together.   Thank you and God bless you.
# # #




Message Sent
To: _________________________________________________________________
Cynthia A. Rice/OPD/EOP
Thomas L. Freedman/OPD/EOP


  Cathy R. Mays/OPD/EOP
  Elena Kagan/OPD/EOP
  Laura Emmett/WHO/EOP


