RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Thomas L. Freedman ( CN=Thomas L. Freedman/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 13-MAY-1998 14:09:05.00

SUBJECT:   Tobacco farmers

TO: Elena Kagan    CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Mary L. Smith ( CN=Mary L. Smith/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
1.  Some of the farm state types were worried that the health groups were
playing footsie with Lugar and Lugar would win if he gets any health group
backing. Obviously, that could lead to Ford going very heavy negative on
McCain.  I talked to Scott Ballin and he assures me that isn't the case,
it is a misunderstanding, he wanted some modifications to Ford to increase
local control of the money.  He promised to call Ford's guy and clarify
that the public health groups are commited to keeping a program -- and
that Lugar is not supportable.

2.   Yesterday, Ford was putting out word that he was pretty close to
having enough votes. Perhaps as a result, today Lugar is supposedly
circulating a new proposal among Republican's upping the amount of money
for his buy-out. The NC farmers say they think Helms/Faircloth and
McConnel might support Lugar. This would be a problem.   So far, only the
very large farmers in NC support Lugar -- they would likely prosper in a
total tobacco free market.

3.   This afternoon I am supposed to get from Dallas the USDA evaluation
of Lugar I asked for showing that Lugar/Nickles would produce a windfall
for the tobacco companies.  (The windfall occurs because the companies --
which buy about 1.6 billion pounds a year, would have the price they have
to pay drop significantly.  Preliminary estimates were it would save them
between 25 and 35 billion dollars.)   If this is any good, it should be
quite powerful for keeping support on Mccain/Ford.  I will get it around
to you as soon as USDA gets it over here.


