 RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

 CREATOR: Robin Leeds ( CN=Robin Leeds/OU=WHO/O=EOP [ WHO 1 )

 CREATION DATE/TIME:28-MAY-1998 17:11:51.00

 SUBJECT:  "Child Custody Protection Act"
 Statistics on Relevant Issues



 TO: Nelson Reyneri ( CN=Nelson Reyneri/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Tracey E. Thornton ( CN=Tracey E. Thornton/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ:UNKNOWN

 TO: Ann F. Lewis ( CN=Ann F. Lewis/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ:UNKNOWN

 TO: Audrey T. Haynes ( CN=Audrey T.   Haynes/O~=WHO/O=EOP   @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: William P. Marshall ( CN=William P. Marshall/OU=WHO/O=EOP     @   EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ:UNKNOWN

 TO: Lisa M. Brown ( CN=Lisa M. Brown/O=OVP @ OVP [ UNKNOWN 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Peter G. Jacoby ( CN=Peter G. Jacoby/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Maria Echaveste ( CN=Maria Echaveste/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Sylvia M. Mathews ( CN=Sylvia M. Mathews/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TEXT:
 ---------------------- Forwarded by Robin Leeds/WHO/EOP on OS/28/98 05:07
 PM ---------------------------




 Robin Leeds
 OS/27/98 02:43:00 PM
 Record Type:    Record

 To:      Nelson Reyneri/WHO/EOP
 cc:      Audrey T. Haynes/WHO/EOP
 Subject:         "Child Custody Protection Act"
 Statistics on Relevant Issues



 1.      Numbers of minors getting abortions -     In 1996, the Alan Guttmacher


 Institute (AGI)  estimated that 1.4 million abortions took place.    22% of
 these abortions were performed· on teenage girls, while 33% were
 performed on women aged 20-24.    In general, 55% of the 1.4 million
 abortions performed were on women under the age 25 .

         According to a 1994 AGI study, 110,890 young women between age 15
 and 17 had abortions, and 12,150 young women under the age of 15 had
 abortions.  In 1992 AGI estimated there were about 308,000 abortions among
 teens.  In 1988, AGI estimated that 172,000 young women aged 17 or younger
 obtained an abortion.

 2.      Other relevant statistics -

    28 states currently enforce parental consent or notification laws for.
a minor seeking an abortion: AL, AR, DE, GA, IN, KS, KY, LA, MD, MA, MI,
MN, MS,MO, MT, NE, NC,ND, OH, PA, RI, SC, SD, UT,VA, WV, WI and WY.

   In 1991, AGI estimated that 61% of minors who have abortions do so with
at least one parent's knowledge; 45% of parents are told by their
daughter. Even in states that enforce no mandatory parental consent or
notice requirements, more than 75 percent of minors under 16 involve one
or both parents. An AGI study found that more than half of all young women
who did not involve a parent in considering an abortion did involve an
adult,  including 15 percent who involved a step-parent or adult relative.
Among minors who did not tell a parent of theirs, 30 percent had
experienced violence in their family or feared violence or being forced to
leave home. The majority of parents support their daughter's decision to
have an abortion.

- These health care professional organizations have opposed parental
consent laws mainly due to concerns about preserving patient/provider
confidentiality and reducing access barriers to reproductive health care
for young women: College of American Academy of Family Physicians,
American Academy of Pediatrics, American Obstetricians, NAACOG,
Organizations of Obstetric, Gynecological and Neonatal Nurses, National
Medical Association, American Medical Women's Association, American
Nurses Association, American Medical Association, American psychiatric
Association, American Psychological Association, and American Public
Health Association.

- Data on the number of illegal abortions is largely non-existent.   By
it's very nature this data would not be reported by patients or
providers.

 - Data on the use of judicial bypass could be collected from state
courts, but there is no central source that has compiled this data.  A
number of the pro-choice organizations are in the process of collecting
this data in certain states, but this process will take some time.


