    RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

    CREATOR: Melissa N. Benton ( CN=Melissa N. Benton/OU=OMB/O=EOP [ OMB 1 )

    CREATION DATE/TIME: 5-JUN-1998 11:05:57.00

    SUBJECT:   Statement of Administration Policy on HR2888 Sales Incentive Compensation

    TO: Sarah S. Lee ( CN=Sarah S. Lee/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
    READ: UNKNOWN

    TO: Daniel J. Cheriok ( CN=Daniel J. Chenok/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
    READ: UNKNOWN

    TO: Karen Tramontano ( CN=Karen Tramontano/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
    READ: UNKNOWN

    TO: Jonathan Orszag ( CN=Jonathan Orszag/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD]   )
    READ: UNKNOWN

    TO: Debra J. Bond ( CN=Debra J. Bond/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
    READ: UNKNOWN

    TO: Barry White ( CN=Barry White/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
    READ: UNKNOWN

    TO: Robert G. Damus ( CN=Robert G. Damus/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
    READ: UNKNOWN

    TO: Kate P. Donovan ( CN=Kate P. Donovan/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
    READ: UNKNOWN

    TO: Cecilia E. Rouse ( CN=Cecilia E. Rouse/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
    READ: UNKNOWN

    TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
    READ: UNKNOWN

    TO: Larry R. Matlack ( CN=Larry R. Matlack/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [OMB 1 )
    READ: UNKNOWN

    TO: Barbara Chow ( CN=Barbara Chow/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
    READ: UNKNOWN

    CC: James C. Murr ( CN=James C. Murr/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
    READ: UNKNOWN

    CC: Janet R. Forsgren ( CN=Janet R. Forsgren/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
    READ: UNKNOWN

    TEXT:
    ---------------------- Forwarded by Melissa N. Benton/OMB/EOP on 06/05/98
    11:04 AM ---------------------------
    Total Pages: ____


    LRM ID: MNB176
    EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
    OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET
    washington, D.C. 20503-0001



Friday, June 5, 1998

LEGISLATIVE REFERRAL MEMORANDUM

TO:                     Legislative Liaison Officer - See Distribution below

FROM:           Janet R. Forsgren (for) Assistant Director for Legislative
Reference
OMB CONTACT:   Melissa N. Benton
                               PHONE: (202)395-7887 FAX: (202)395-6148
SUBJECT:       Statement of Administration Policy on HR2888 Sales
Incentive Compensation Act

DEADLINE:               9:30 a.m.   Monday, June 8, 1998

In accordance with OMB Circular A-19, OMB requests the views of your
agency on the above subject before advising on its relationship to the
program of the President.  Please advise us if this item will affect
direct spending or receipts for purposes of the "Pay-As-You-Go" provisions
of Title XIII of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990.

COMMENTS: This bill is likely to be considered by the House on Tuesday,
June 9th, under suspension of the rules.  The deadline is firm.

DISTRIBUTION LIST

AGENCIES:
62-LABOR - Robert A. Shapiro - (202) 219-8201
25-COMMERCE - Michael A. Levitt - (202) 482-3151
61-JUSTICE - L. Anthony Sutin - (202) 514-2141

EOP:
Barbara Chow
Barry White
Larry R. Matlack
Debra J. Bond
Elena Kagan
Jonathan Orszag
Cecilia E. Rouse
Karen Tramontano
Kate P. Donovan
Daniel J. Chenok
Robert G. Damus
Sarah S. Lee
Janet R. Forsgren
James C. Murr
LRM ID: MNB176 SUBJECT:    Statement of Administration Policy on HR2888
Sales Incentive Compensation Act


RESPONSE TO
LEGISLATIVE REFERRAL
MEMORANDuM"

If your response to this request for views is short (e.g., concur/no
comment), we prefer that you respond bye-mail or by faxing us this
response sheet.  If the response is short and you prefer to call, please
call the branch-wide line shown below (NOT the analyst's line) to leave a
message with a legislative assistant.



You may also respond by:
        (1) calling the analyst/attorney's direct line (you will be
connected to voice mail if the analyst does not answer); or
        (2) sending us a memo or letter
Please include the LRM number shown above, and the subject shown below.


TO:             Melissa N. Benton Phone:   395~7887   Fax:  395-6148
                Office of Management and Budget
                Branch-Wide Line (to reach legislative assistant): 395-7362

FROM:                                                    (Date)

                                                         (Name)

                                                         (Agency)

                                                         (Telephone)


The following is the response of our agency to your request for views on
the above-captioned subject:

               Concur

               No Objection

               No Comment

               See proposed edits on pages

               Other:

               FAX RETURN of _____ pages, attached to this response sheet


DRAFT -- NOT FOR RELEASE

        June 5, 1998
         (House)




H.R. 2888 - Sales Incentive Compensation Act
(Fawell (R) IL and 23 others)

The Administration has concerns about H.R. 2888, because it would deny an
estimated 1.5 million sales employees overtime pay when they are required
to work extra hours.  In addition, the multi-test exemption in the bill as
reported is overly complex and would be extremely difficult and burdensome
for employers, affected employees, and the Department of Labor to
implement, which could lead to needless and costly litigation.    The bill
would benefit employers at the expense of employeesD, existing overtime e
ntitlements and would remove a basic Fair Labor Standards Act principle
-- to limit excessive hours of work by employees and provide them just
compensation for working overtime.


* * * * * * * * * *
(Do Not Distribute Outside Executive Office of the President)

This position was developed by LRD (Benton) in consultation with HRD
(Matlack/Bond) .  The Departments of Labor (), Justice (), and Commerce ()
have reviewed the proposed position and have either no comment or no
objection.

Legislative History

H.R. 2888 was introduced on November 7, 1997.  On March 5, 1998,. H.R. 2888
was approved by the Workforce Protections Subcommittee by voice vote, with
an amendment in the nature of a substitute that made a number of technical
and clarifying changes to the bill.  On April 1, 1998, the Education and
the Workforce Committee ordered the bill reported as amended.  The
Committee report has not been filed to date.

Administration position to Date

The Department of Labor sent a letter to Reps. Ballenger and Andrews on
March 4, opposing H.R. 2888 as introduced.  In its letter, Labor stated
that the billO,s expansion of the FLSA sales exemption "would weaken a
basic principle of the FLSA--to limit excessive hours of work by employees
and provide them just compensation for working overtime."

Labor sent a virtually identical letter to Rep. Goodling on March 31,
1998, prior to the full CommitteeO,s consideration of the bill.

Background and Summary of H.R. 2888 as Reported

Under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (FLSA), sales personnel who
work away from their employerO,s premise ("outside sales" employees) are
exempted from the ActO,s overtime and minimum wage requirements.

The sponsors of H.R. 2888 argue that the bill is necessary to accomodate
changes in the workplace since the FLSAO,s 1938 enactment.  They assert
that the advent of technology has led to the transition 6f many sales jobs
from outside to inside sales positions.  These positions, the sponsors
argue, have the same characteristics as outside sales jobs (e.g.,
irregular hours in response to customer needs), and should thus receive
the same treatment under the FL'SA.

The bill .would amend section 13(a) of the FLSA (29 U.S.C. 5213(a)) to add
a new exemption from the FLSAO,s minimum wage and overtime compensation
requirements for "inside sales" employees meeting certain requirements.
The bill would exempt any employee in a sales position if all of the
following conditions are met:

(1) The employee has specialized or technical knowledge related to the
products or services being sold.

(2) The position requires a detailed understanding of the needs of those
to whom the employee sells.

(3) The position requires the employee to exercise discretion in offering
a variety of products and services.

(4) The employeeO,s sales are. predominantly to individuals or entities to
whom the employeeO,s position has made previous sales and the position


does not involve initiating sales contacts.

(5) The employee receives at least a specified minimum base compensation.
The bill would require base compensation of at least 2,080 times the
minimum wage (currently $10,712).

(6) The employee receives a specified minimum level of sales-based
compensation. The bill would require the employee l :, s sales-based
compensation to be at least 40 percent of 1.5 times the minimum wage
multiplied by 2,080 (currently $6,427).  The bill would also require the
rate of compensation for sales above this minimum level to be at least
equal to the rate of.compensation for sales up to this level--a
requirement intended to ensure that employers do not pay sales employees a
commission onlY up to the minimum level.

(7) The employee is not employed as a route sales driver.

Pay-AS-YOu-Go Scoring

According to HRD (Bond) and BRD (Lee), H.R. 2888 would not affect direct
spending or receipts; therefore, it is not subject to the pay-as-you-go
requirement of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990. CBO concurs.

LEGISLATIVE REFERENCE DIVISION DRAFT
May 6, 1998/2 p.m.


