RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Michael Cohen ( CN=Michael Cohen/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD ) )

CREATION DATE/TlME:10-JUN-1998 11:27:30.00

SUBJECT:   Vouchers and tobacco

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ) )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ) )
READ :'UNKNOWN

CC: Broderick Johnson ( CN=Broderick Johnson/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO ) )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Education groups are beginning to call here and to the Education
Department about the Coverdell voucher provision in the tobacco bill.
Predictably, the education groups are extremely nervous about the voucher
provision, and ED is also looking for guidance for press calls.

I presume that the voucher provision is not going to result in Sen. Dems
walking away from the overall bill (let me know if I'm wrong about this).
Without diverting your efforts away from moving the tobacco bill forward,
I think we need to way to manage the education group politcs in the short
run. We neither want them fighting against the tobacco bill, nor failing
to work with us fully to move our school construction and class size
battle forward.

In the short run I think we need to do the following when talking to the
education community:

1.  Indicate the importance of moving the tobacco bill forward in the
Senate.  (Any talking points you want to give us on this would be great) .

2. Reiterate our well-known opposition to vouchers, without in anyway
implying that we are going to veto the tobacco bill over this issue.

3.  Reassure the education groups that we will fight to strip this
provision before final passage,  and remind them that there will be lots
of things that will need to be cleaned up in the end game.

4.  Urge them to oppose any effort to add this provision in the House
(though I suspect that battle is already a lost cause) .

In addition, if we put out any statement on the bill in the   next day or
so--including one that reminds people of the good things in   the bill--we
should add a simple statement reiterating our opposition to   the voucher
provision.  It doesn't need to be a big deal, it just needs   to be there.

Let me know if this is ok with you.


