RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Jeffrey A. Shesol ( CN=Jeffrey A. Shesol/OU=WHO/O=EOP [ WHO 1 )

CREATION DATE/TlME:19-JUN-1998 15:18:57.00

SUBJECT:   tobacco insert

TO: Elena Kagan   CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Cathy R. Mays ( CN=Cathy R. Mays/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
This goes atop the President's remarks to the Family Conference.    Any
thoughts? I'll wait to hear from you.

Jeff
6-2796

        Before I begin, I want to emphasize what previous speakers have
said: there is no family'health issue more important than protecting our
children from tobacco. We have been working for some time now to forge an
honorable, bipartisan compromise.  But last week, in a brazen act of
partisan politics, the Republican leadership chose tobacco companies over
American families.  The bill they killed not only gave parents a fighting
chance against tobacco advertising that targets our children; it would
also have protected kids from drugs, and given low- and middle-income
families a tax break by ending the marriage penalty.   So this was not just
a pro-tobacco vote; across the board, it was an anti-family vote.

        The political guardians of tobacco companies will not succeed in
clouding the debate or changing the subject from the health of our
children. And they will not convince me that this battle is over, because
weO,re going to keep on fighting it until we win it for our children.  I
still welcome all members of Congress to join in passing meaningful,
bipartisan legislation that curbs youth smoking. But one thing I will not
do is participate a charade that fails to protect our kids and instead
gives political cover to the allies of the tobacco lobby.  I will veto
anything less than honest, serious legislation.  Because our children
deserve no less.


