 RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

 CREATOR: Kate P. Donovan ( CN=Kate P. Donovan/OU=OMB/O=EOP [ OMB 1 )

 CREATION DATE/TIME:24-JUL-1998 11:29:02.00

 SUBJECT:   C/J/S APPROPS HOUSE FLOOR SAP

 TO: Mary L. Smith ( CN=Mary L. Smith/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Karen Tramontano ( CN=Karen Tramontano/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: G. E. DeSeve ( CN=G. E. DeSeve/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Jeffrey M. Smith ( CN=Jeffrey M. Smith/OU=OSTP/O=EOP@EOP [ OSTP 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Wesley P. Warren ( CN=Wesley P. Warren/OU=CEQ/O=EOP@EOP [ CEQ 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Lisa M. Kountoupes ( CN=Lisa M. Kountoupes/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: William P. Marshall ( CN=William P. Marshall/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ:UNKNOWN

 TO: Martha Foley ( CN=Martha Foley/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Sally Katzen ( CN=Sally Katzen/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: John Podesta ( CN=John Podesta/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1
 READ:UNKNOWN

 TO: Robert N. Weiner ( CN=Robert N. weiner/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ:UNKNOWN

 TO: RUDMAN_M@A1@CD@VAXGTWY    RUDMAN_M@A1@CD@VAXGTWY [ UNKNOWN 1 )   (NSC)
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Todd Stern ( CN=Todd Stern/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Kerri A. Jones ( CN=Kerri A. Jones/OU=OSTP/O=EOP@EOP [ OSTP 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Kathleen A. McGinty ( CN=Kathleen A. McGinty/OU=CEQ/O=EOP@EOP [ CEQ 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Joshua Gotbaum ( CN=Joshua Gotbaum/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Ron Klain ( CN=Ron Klain/O=OVP@OVP [ UNKNOWN 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )


 READ:UNKNOWN

 TO: Gene B. Sperling ( CN=Gene.B. Sperling/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD I       )
 READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Rahm I. Emanuel ( CN=Rahm I. Emanuel/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO I      )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Rosemary Evans ( CN=Rosemary Evans/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB I    )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Adrienne C. Erbach ( CN=Adrienne C. Erbach/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB I )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Peter A. Weissman ( CN=Peter A. Weissman/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD I )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Judy Jablow ( CN=Judy Jablow/OU=CEQ/O=EOP@EOP [ CEQ I    )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Charles R. Marr ( CN=Charles R. Marr/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD I )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Lisa Zweig ( CN=Lisa Zweig/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP (OMB I )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Charles Konigsberg ( CN=Charles Konigsberg/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB I )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Shannon Mason ( CN=Shannon Mason/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD I )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Michelle Crisci ( CN=Michelle Crisci/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO I      )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Jessica L. Gibson ( CN=Jessica L. Gibson/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO I          )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: FARRAR_J@Al@CD@VAXGTWY     FARRAR_J@Al@CD@VAXGTWY [ UNKNOWN I )    (NSC)
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Victoria A. Wachino ( CN=Victoria A. Wachino/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB I )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Robert L. Nabors ( CN=Robert L. Nabors/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB I        )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Paul J. Weinstein Jr.    ( CN=Paul J. Weinstein Jr./OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD I )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Emil E. Parker ( CN=Emil E. Parker/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD I    )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Jill M. Blickstein ( CN=Jill M. Blickstein/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB          I )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Elizabeth Gore ( CN=Elizabeth Gore/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB I    )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Jonathan H. Adashek ( CN=Jonathan H. Adashek/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO J )


 READ: UNKNOWN

 cc: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 CC: Melissa G. Green ( CN=Melissa G. Green/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 CC: Kevin S. Moran ( CN=Kevin S. Moran/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TEXT:
 Below is the House Floor SAP for the C/J/S Appropriations bill.  The new
 language on amendments is in bold text -- all of the other language is
 identical to the House Rules SAP that was sent on 7/22/98.  Please review
 the added language and provide comments/clearance by 4pm today.· We aim to
 release the Floor SAP to the Hill by c.o.b. today.  Many thanks.

 H.R. 4276 -- COMMERCE, JUSTICE, STATE, THE JUDICIARY,
   AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS BILL, FY 1999
 (Sponsors: Livingston (R),. Louisiana; Rogers (R), Kentucky)


         This Statement of Administration Policy provides the
 AdministrationO,s views on H.R. 4276, the Commerce, Justice, and State,
 the JUdiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 1999, as
 reported by the House Appropriations Committee.  Your consideration of the
 AdministrationO,s views would be appreciated.

         The Administration appreciates the Committee's support for many of
 the President's priorities within the 302(b) allocation.  For example, we
 appreciate the Committee's funding of law enforcement programs in general
 and the COPS program in particular.  Funding COPS at the requested level
 of $1.4 billion is consistent with the Balanced Budget Agreement and would
 enable us to achieve the goal of hiring 100,000 additional police officers
 by the year 2000.

         However, the allocation is simply insufficient to make the
 necessary investments in other critical programs funded by this bill.  The
 only way to achieve the appropriate investment level is to offset
 discretionary spending by using savings in other areas.  The President's
 FY 1999 Budget proposes levels of discretionary spending for FY 1999 that
 conform to the Bipartisan Budget Agreement by making savings in mandatory
 and other programs available to help finance this spending.  In the
 Transportation Equity Act, Congress -- on a broad, bipartisan basis
 took similar action in approving funding for surface transportation
 programs paid for with mandatory offsets. We want to work with the
 Congress on mutually agreeable mandatory and other offsets that would be
 used to increase high-priority discretionary programs, including those
 funded by this bill.  In addition, we hope that the House will reduce
 funding for lower priority and unrequested discretionary programs, and
 redirect funding to programs of higher priority.

        The Administration has very serious concerns, discussed   below,
with the Committee's inadequate funding of a number of priority   programs,
as well as with objectionable language provisions.  If the bill   were
presented to the President in its current form, the President's   senior
advisers would recommend that the President veto the bill.

Legal Services Corporation



        The Committee bill funds the Legal Services Corporation (LSC) at
$141 million, $142 million below the FY 1998 enacted level and $199
million below the President's request of $340 million, This funding level
is unacceptable,  It represents a 65-percent cut from the FY 1995 level of
$400 million, would severely cripple the program, and calls into question
the Federal Government's commitment to ensuring that all Americans,
regardless of income, have access to the Judicial system, The Supreme
Court recently ruled that interest on lawyer trust accounts (IOLTAs) are
the private property of clients and cannot be used to generate resources
for civil legal services, This eliminates a funding source that provided
LSC programs with more than $57 million last year and underscores the
importance of action to fully fund the President's request, The
Administration strongly supports efforts to increase funding for the LSC,

 Small Business Administration

        The Administration strongly objects to the Committee's funding
levels for the administration of the Small Business Administration's
(SBA's) programs, The Committee's funding level for the Salaries and
Expenses account regular operating expenses represents a 27- percent
reduction from the President's request, and includes a requirement that
all of the reduction be taken from headquarters functions,  Such funding
levels would require reductions in staff by more than 1,200 staff years
through severe reductions-in-force. Not even the elimination of all
headquarters employees would satisfy the Committee report requirement to
take reductions solely from non-District Offices

Equal Employment Opportunity Commission

        The Administration strongly urges the House to fully fund the
President's request of $279 million for the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC), $18.5 million above the Committee mark.  The additional
resources are essential and would allow EEOC to reduce the backlog of
pending complaints and implement much-needed reforms in the way all
complaints are managed, including an enhanced alternative dispute
resolution program. We look forward to working with Congress to provide
funding for EEOC and other programs included in the President's civil
rights enforcement initiative.

Department of Commerce

 Decennial Census. The language in the Committee bill is unacceptable.
It is critical that the Congress provide full-year funding for the
Decennial Census without any restrictions on the use of statistical
sampling. Delays or disruptions would unacceptably complicate the
management of this massive operation. We urge the House to pass an
amendment that removes these onerous language restrictions and provides
funding that will allow the Census Bureau to implement its current plan.
This plan was developed by statistical experts and based on
recommendations from the National Academy of Sciences, which found that
regardless of cost, the methods of the past could not achieve satisfactory
accuracy. The statistical methods incorporated in the BureauD,s plan
would produce the most accurate census possible and virtually eliminate
the large undercounts of minorities, children and other groups that
occurred in the 1990 census.

 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, The Administration
objects to inadequate funding for Administration priorities within the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), including:  the


 Clean water Initiative to protect coastal communities; the GLOBE program,
 which promotes scientific discovery and student achievement; and,
 activities to implement the Endangered Species Act and Magnuson-Stevens
 Act.  Reductions to the Climate and Global Change ProgI'am would slow
 research to understand the implications of extreme weather events such as
 El Nino.   In addition, by not fully funding the request for the National
 Weather Service, the Committee threatens vital services. The
 Administration strongly opposes amendment language that extends state
 jurisdiction of fisheries from 3 miles to· "3 marine leagues" for Alabama,
 Louisiana, and Mississippi. The extension of States' jurisdiction over
 marine resources beyond the currently drawn boundaries would undermine the
 current management regime and could have severe and detrimental effects on
 living marine resources in the Gulf.    Finally, the Administration is
 concerned with funding restrictions in bill language that could limit
 NOAA's 'ability to fulfill its mission.

The Administration is also particularly concerned about inadequate funding
to fulfill contract obligations for the geostationary weather satellite
program.  Renegotiation or termination of these contracts would jeopardize
satellite continuity and increase costs.  The recent failure of the GOES-9
satellite underscores the need to maintain production schedules. The
satellite allowance would necessitate a restructuring of the converged
satellite program -- a complex and carefully negotiated multi-agency
system.

 National Institute for Standards and Technology. The Administration is
concerned that the Committee's exclusion of the requested advance
appropriation for the Advanced Measurement Laboratory would increase costs
and delay completion by at least a year. We are also very disappointed by
the lack of support for the Advanced Technology Program, which fosters
cutting-edge research. The Committee allowance would support only $43
million in new awards, 54 percent below the President's request of $94
million for new awards.

 Statistics Initiatives. The Administration is concerned about inadequate
funding for high- priority statistical initiatives, especially the
improvement of National Account measures, the Poverty Measure initiative,
and the Continuous Measurement program, which will provide annual
demographic information on the population and eliminate the need for the
D&long formDB in the 2010 Census.


 Minority Business Development Agency. Management reforms at the Minority
Business Development Agency (MBDA) have improved delivery of programs and
technical assistance, and MBDA has emerged as a stronger, more focused
agency.  The Administration objects to the reduction to MBDA's base and r
equests restoration of $2.B million.

 National Information Infrastructure Program and Other Issues.   In the
Committee bill, the National Information Infrastructure program is reduced
by $4 million (20 percent) below the FY 1998 enacted level.   Such a
reduction would substantially decrease seed money for innovative
information technology projects.  In addition, the Administration strongly
objects to onerous reporting requirements that would require the
Department to notify Congress before exporting satellites to China.

Year 2000 Computer Conversion

        In the FY 1999 Budget, the President has requested more than $1
billion for Y2K computer conversion.  In addition, the budget anticipated


 that additional requirements would emerge over the course of the year and
 included an allowance for emergencies and other unanticipated needs.   It
 is essential to make Y2K funding available quickly and flexibly.  The
 House effort to defer action on the emergency fund in the Treasury and
 General Government Appropriations bill is very troubling, particularly in
 light of several Subcommittees, including the Commerce, Justice, State
 Subcommittee, deciding to not fund the base Y2K requests.

 Department of Justice

         The Administration appreciates the CommitteeD,s continued support
 for law enforcement and other Department of Justice activities.  However,
 as discussed below, we are concerned about Committee action in a number of
 areas.

  Title V -- At-Risk Children's Grant Program. The Administration urges
 the House to provide $95 million requested for the At-Risk children's
 proposal.  The At-Risk proposal supports local community prevention
 programs such as mentoring, truancy prevention, and gang intervention to
 prevent young people from becoming involved in the criminal justice
 system.

  Drug Testing and Intervention.  We are disappointed by the Committee's
 failure to provide any of the $85 million requested for the drug testing
 and intervention program.  Systematic drug testing is a proven,
 cost-effective means of using the coercive power of the criminal justice
 system to move non-violent offenders into drug treatment programs.

 Imposition of State Ethics Rules.  The Administration strongly opposes
the provisions in the bill that would impose State ethics rules on Federal
attorneys and establish an independent board that could fire Federal
agents, prosecutors, and civil law enforcement attorneys. These provisio
ns would undermine Federal law enforcement by subjecting Department of
Justice attorneys to multiple and inconsistent State rules of conduct,
transferring to the States the authority to regulate the conduct of
Federal attorneys in the performance of their Federal law enforcement
duties.

 Protection Against Terrorism, Including Use of Chemical and Biological
Weapons.  We appreciate the CommitteeD,s support of the AdministrationD,s
effort to combat terrorism, particularly the use of chemical and
biological weapons.  However, we ask that the Committee fully fund the
request for the Attorney GeneralD,s Counterterrorism Fund, including
funding for local bomb squad equipment.

 Protection Against Cybercrime and Attacks on Our Nation's Critical
Infrastructures.  The Committee mark excludes Counterterrorism Fund
support to combat cybercrime, including funding for potential transfer to
other agencies and for the FBI's National Infrastructure Protection
Center.  The Department of Commerce has identified funding requirements
for the interagency Critical Infrastructure Assurance Office, which
coordinates the development and integration of a national critical
infrastructure plan.  Failure to provide funding would endanger the
Government's efforts to fight cybercrime.

 Indian Country. We appreciate the Committee mark for Indian Country.
However, we urge the House to fully fund the AdministrationD,s request for
Indian Country criminal justice assistance, including FBI and U.S.
Attorneys resources.


  Federal Bureau of Investigation. The Administration is disappointed that
 the Committee's level for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is $52
 million below the President's request. We are particularly concerned
 about the proposed $30 million funding level for the FBI's Information
 Sharing Initiative (lSI), which is $20 million below the request, and
 would prevent the FBI from improving its electronic case file information
 and thereby increasing the effectiveness and efficiency of the FBI's
 investigations.  Furthermore, the reporting requirement on lSI would
 impede the FBI's ongoing efforts to provide critical information
 technology infrastructure support using existing resources.

 Immigration and Naturalization Service. We appreciate the CommitteeD,s
support for the AdministrationD,s border control initiative.  However, the
Committee's $2.567 billion mark, $156 million below the Presidentll, s
request, is insufficient to support a comprehensive, bipartisan border
management and enforcement strategy. The PresidentO,s request supports
increased border management funding for Border Patrol agents, critical
infrastructure and technology, detention support, interior enforcement,
and includes $36 million more than the Committee's level for Border
Patrol, detention, and office construction. We urge the House to fully
fund the PresidentD,s request.

 Bureau of Prisons/Abortion. The Administration urges the House to strike
section 103 of the Committee bill, which would prohibit the Bureau of
Prisons from funding abortions except in cases of rape or where the life
of the mother is endangered. The Department of Justice believes that
there is a great likelihood that this provision would be held
unconstitutional.

 Juvenile Justice Block Grant. The Administration is concerned that the
$250
million Juvenile Justice Block Grant in the Committee bill may authorize a
abroad and unfocused range of spending, and urges the House to provide
funding for more targeted activities, including direct funds for local
prosecutors
 to target juvenile and quality of life crimes.

 Narrowband Communications. The Administration is disappointed that the
Committee has not provided the $86 million requested to establish a fund
for the consolidation and coordination of the Department's conversion to
narrowband communications systems. We urge the House to establish such a
fund and to restore the $24 million in base resources that are excluded
from the Committee mark.

 Potential Amendment Related to Presidential Executive Orders

         The Administration would strongly oppose an amendment that may be offered
prohibiting the use of funds in the Act for implementing Executive Order
13087, dated May 28, 1998. The purpose of Executive Order 13087 is to
confirm and make uniform the existing bar preventing the federal
government from discriminating against members of the federal civilian
workforce based on .sexual orientation. [It is intended that the term
D&sexual orientationD8 have the common meaning stated in the Employment
Non-Discrimination Act, D&homosexuality, bisexuality, or
heterosexuality.D8*OMB suggests deletion of sent. -- need WW decision.)
Executive Order 13087 does not authorize affirmative action policies, such
as recruitment, reporting, or goal-set~ing based on sexual orientation.
Nor does it create any rights to file a complaint alleging discrimination
on the basis of sexual orientation with a court or with the EEOC. The
order leaves intact the current procedures for dealing with such


 complaints.  The Administration objects to any effort to scale back
 policies that 'ensure federal workers are treated fairly. In particular,
 we object to any amendment that would allow discrimination based on sexual
 orientation.

         The amendment would also prohibit the Federal government from
 implementing Executive Order 13083 on Federalism. The Administration
 strongly opposes this effort, which would block our efforts to ensure that
 existing policies are consistent with recent Supreme Court decisions and
 unfunded mandates statutes and would inhibit our ongoing efforts to take
 into account important State and local concerns in Federal actions.   After
 hearing concerns from representatives of State and local governments, the
 Administration last week announced it would delay implementation of the
 Executive Order for an additional 90 days in order to consult thoroughly
 with those groups about the content of the Order, and to make changes
 where appropriate

 International Affairs Programs

         The Administration appreciates the CommitteeD,s support for the
 Department of StateD,s Diplomatic and Consular Programs and Salaries and
 Expenses accounts.  However, we are concerned about the CommitteeD,s
 reduction of $26 million for the Department's operating requirements.
 Further, the CommitteeD,s reduction of $38 million to the request for
 information technology improvements in the Capital Investment Fund would
 jeopardize the DepartmentD,s effort to achieve Y2K compliance.  In
 addition, limits placed on the amount of fees to execute the PresidentD,s
 Border Security Program that can be used in FY 1999 could slow urgently
 needed border security improvements.

         The Administration is very concerned about the CommitteeD,s $245
 million reduction to the request for Security and Maintenance of U.S.
 Missions.  The CommitteeD,s mark does not fund construction of needed
 Embassy projects in Beijing and Berlin and would require offsets against
 regular security and maintenance activities to fund initial design work
 for these important projects. We request that the Committee provide a
 funding level consistent with the PresidentD,s budget for urgently needed
 embassy facilities and ongoing security and maintenance programs,
 including Y2K-related activities.

        The Administration appreciates the steps the Committee has taken
to fund the request for arrearage payments this year.  The Administration
wants to work with the Congress to ensure that these funds are available
in a timely fashion to retain our influence in these organizations and to
identify reform measures that further U.S. interests.  However, we
strongly oppose the bill's authorization requirement that is intended to
subject this important foreign policy measure to the unrelated issue of
family planning policy. There is legitimate disagreement over this issue,
but none of the U.N. and related international organizations arrears
payments is related to this issue. Therefore, it is wholly inappropriate
to hold the payment of U.S. arrears hostage to the family planning issue.

         Further, although the Committee has provided significant funding
 for the Contributions to International Organizations (CIO) and
 Contributions for International Peacekeeping Activities for FY 1999, the
 Administration is concerned that reductions in these accounts would
 increase arrears and impair the ability of the United States to address
 foreign policy interests through the mechanism of U.N. peacekeeping.

        The Administration opposes the Committee's proposal to provide up


 to $15 million for Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty needs by transfer
 from the CIO account without any increase in funding.  We strongly believe
 that these important activities should be funded at the $29 million level,
 as requested in the Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related
 Programs account.

         The Administration is concerned about the $21 million overall
 reduction to the request for the U.S. Information Agency (USIA). Given
 that the USIA request is virtually at the FY 1998 level, the CommitteeD,s
 reduction would hurt core public diplomacy activities, Year 2000
 compliance, critical broadcasting activities including broadcasting to
 Africa, and important grant programs. We urge the House to provide
 funding for USIAD,s operating and special accounts at the requested level.

         Finally, the Administration is concerned about the Committee's
 reductions for the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, the Asia
 Foundation, the American Institute in Taiwan, and the International
 Commissions. Such reductions would place a disproportionate burden on the
 operating budgets of these small agencies.

 Federal Communications Commission

         The Administration is very concerned about the lack of funding for
 any of the requested increases for the Federal Communications Commission
 (FCC). The Committee's funding level could require an agency-wide
 furlough or reduction-in-force, impairing the FCC's ability to implement
 the mandates of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 and to carry out
 critical mission operations.

 Teamsters Election

         The Administration objects to the continuation of last year's
 rider that prohibits the use of funds for supervising the Teamster's
 election, despite a court order requiring the Federal Government to pay
 for a supervised election.


