RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Thomas L. Freedman ( CN=Thomas L. Freedman/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:24-JUL-1998 11:26:38.00

SUBJECT:   NYT food safety editorial today

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Dorothy Samuels wrote this. Any guidance you can give Larry S. or Jack L.
that this is an admisnitration priority will help in conference.

                    Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company
                                 The New York Times

                    July 24, 1998, Friday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: A Food Fight Worth waging

 BODY:
   President Clinton has asked Congress to provide $101 million to bolster
Government efforts to insure the safety of the nation's food supply. The
funds
would be used to deploy more food safety inspectors and new technology,
expand
research into the causes of and solutions to food-related illness, and
educate
consumers and retail food outlets on the safest food handling practices.

    There is growing public concern about the large number of food-caused
illnesses, including some from unexpected sources like the salmonella in
cereal
that sickened 200 people in 11 states last month. Indeed, Mr. Clinton's
initiative could well be stronger. But he is having a hard time getting
the

Republicans who control the House and Senate to furnish even the modest
sum he
has requested.

    The House has allocated just $16.8 million for the program, far short
of the
amount required to make serious headway against the hazards associated with
bacteria, viruses and parasites in food. The Senate's original ·response
was even
more grudging. The Agriculture spending bill that hit the Senate floor
last week
..ARMS   Email System


set aside a measly $2.6 million. But it finally dawned on lawmakers that
this
could be a tough position to defend to voters. Senator Tom Harkin,
Democrat of
Iowa, then won approval for an amendment to increase the appropriated
amount to
$68 million. That is progress, but well short of what is required. Surely
food
 safety is at least as important as some of the pork-barrel projects
buried in
the transportation bill.

    The issue now moves to a House-Senate conference committee. Some
lawmakers
have argued that money for new programs is tight this year, and that some
of the
Food and Drug Administration's responsibilities could be delegated to
state and
local governments. But health officials estimate that food-borne diseases
account for up to 30 million cases of illnesses and 9,000 deaths a year.
Imported foods, which are only rarely inspected now, increasingly
contribute to
the problem. This is hardly a time to be diminishing the Federal
Government's
role. Congress should find the money to finance the White House food
safety
initiative, and then promptly attend to the Administration's proposals to
strengthen the policing authority of food agencies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 1998


