RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Neera Tanden ( CN=Neera Tanden/OU=WHO/O=EOP [ WHO 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 28-JUL-1998 21:56:59.00

SUBJECT:   charter schools -- quick update

TO: Elena Kagan   CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Jonathan H. Schnur ( CN=Jonathan H. Schnur/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Michael Cohen ( CN=Michael Cohen/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Just wanted to brief you on a recent development:

Jack called Melanne about D.C. developments in general this evening. They
discussed the issue of charter schools in particular in some detail.
Melanne conveyed her support of the House version of the D.C. approps on
charter schools.  She argued that since it's unlikely that we will ever
get the $100 million in economic development money,  we should state
outright our support for the House position and work to ensure that this
is the resolution in conference. He seemed amenable on that issue.
However, they did not go into detail about the Senate.

Also, I wanted to explain the concern about Carol that I raised earlier.
Basically, Carol has been working with the Control Board very closely for
a long time, and I am concerned that Carol has been advocating the Board
position on these matters, even on those issues on which the
Administration and the Board may have conflicting views, e.g. charters.
 (I believe Jon shares this concern.)   My concern is that the Board's
position on the request for broad transfer authority is untenable, and
that for all we know, they are using the issue of charter schools as
leverage to get transfer authority in lieu of a real resolution of the
charter school issue. This of course is a gamble, because they could
easily never receive the transfer authority as well as any resolution of
charters. And in fact, this is what happened in the Senate full committee
-- while Jon and I were told several times that the Senate would fix the
problem with some kind of transfer authority, they neither fixed charter
schools nor offered any transfer authority.     In my conversations with
Carol, she has argued the Board position, and while I realize that we must
be deferential to the Board, such deference does not preclude us from
trying to convince them to take actions that would meet some
Administration priorities as well.    My only concern was that the
DPC/Education/First Lady view gets communicated to Jack, and hopefully,
ultimately to Alice. However, the conversation between Jack and Melanne
above assauges many of these concerns.

Thanks.


