RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Julie A. Fernandes ( CN=Julie A. Fernandes/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 6-AUG-1998 17:18:36.00

SUBJECT:   Title IX and sexual harassment

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Elena,
FYI. Yesterday, Eddie C. and I met with the DOJ and Dept. of Ed. to
discuss where they are in developing leg. and/or reg. fixes for the Gebser
decision.  They are proceeding on three tracks:

1. The Dept. of Educ. is going to send a letter to Superintendants
clarifying that the decision in Gebser. does not change a school's
obligations under Title IX re: sexual harassment (i.e., that school
districts have to provide students with a discrimination-free environment
as defined under their existing regulations).   I am sending you a copy of
the draft.

2. The Depts. of Educ. and Justice are continuing to work together to
develop detailed guidance on a school district's Title IX obligations.
They would like to issue this guidance in a couple of months. They will
let us know when they have a draft.

3. The NAAG is putting out a guide to best practices in this area that
will include a framework of how to understand harassment law generally
(including racial, religious, and sexual harassment -- including sexual
orientation harassment). They are scheduled to get this to DOJ soon, and
are working to meet a publication deadline of the end of September. DOJ
will share this draft with us when they receive it.

The advocacy groups want a legislative response to Gebser that will make
it easier (b/c of possibility of money damages) for private plaintiffs to
enforce Title IX.   The National Women's Law Center has drafted
legislation that would give students the same rights under Title IX that
workers have under Title VII (except that this legislation, unlike Title
VII, would not have damages caps). According to Justice and Ed., the
groups want to try to attach this legislation to something this summer.
The Depts. of Justice and Educ. are trying to decide whether the would
recommend that we support this (or any other) legislative response to
Gebser. They will keep us up to date as this process goes forward.

julie


