RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Jose Cerda III ( CN=Jose Cerda III/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 8-SEP-1998 14:46:00.00

SUBJECT:   Race/Crime Outline

TO: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Leanne A. Shimabukuro ( CN=Leanne A. Shimabukuro/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Elena:

My comments/edits to the Crime section of Edley's document:

1. Overemphasizes "fairness issues," underemphasizes "victimization."
The truly "bold" approach to Race/Crime is not to focus so much on those
issues that are already part of Washington's polarized debate on
Race/Crime (i.e., police brutality, death penalty disparities), but on
clearly defining and making the case for how the criminal justice system
"underserves" minority communities. While there is much less literature
and data on how minority communities are underprotected, there is ample
evidence of its existence -- and the President's One America report could
be the document that finally energizes leaders at all levels, and from all
races, to come together on take on the issue of crime in minority
neighborhoods.

2.  Should include discussion of firearms violence in victimization
section.  Guns and the high victimization rates for young minority males
go hand-in-hand, and offer a powerful example of how the Race/Crime
discussion does not always include critical issues.

3. Discussion of responsibility, adults and non-governmental response to
keeping young minorities out of the criminal justice system. The
introduction of Chris' memo talks about the importance of non-federal and
non-governmental challenges that should be included in the report.  I
would suggest that this section is perfect for such suggestions. For
instance, what more can communities, local leadership, minority
leadership, business, etc., be doing to keep young minorities from coming
into contact with the criminal justice system. This might also be a good
opportunity to discuss the Chicago Study, which found that communities of
all races with certain informal social controls -- i.e., adults
intervening to reinforce certain behaviors/standards -- had 40% lower
rates of violent crime. How can non-government entities strengthen and
support these social controls -- and, thus, reduce crime, violence and the
number of minority kids coming into contact with the criminal justice
system.

4.  Think about toning down language on racial profiling, police brutality
and misconduct.  It seems to me that Chris' language here may be
problematic.  First, these issue deserves serious thought and action, but
I don't see how we propose "zero tolerance" against these practices when
there is little consensus on what all of these terms mean. We should by


all means be tough on brutality, but misconduct and racial profiling are
much broader categories that means different things to different people.
We need to think about exactly what law enforcement will be prohibited
from doing before we propose "zero tolerance."

5. Miscellany.   I think it's a great idea to talk about a "right" to
community safety, as Chris suggests.  I think "coerced abstinence" -- or
drug testing and treatment -- is worth talking about in the incarceration
section. And my reaction is that most of what needs to be done in this
section will fallon state and local governments, not the feds.


