RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Kate P. Donovan ( CN=Kate P. Donovan/OU=OMB/O=EOP [ OMB 1 )

CREATION DATE/TlME:17-SEP-1998 14:36:08.00

SUBJECT:   NEED CLEARANCE: SAP: HR 3736 - WORKFORCE IMPROVEMENT AND PROTECTION ACT

TO: Michelle Peterson ( CN=Michelle Peterson/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Barbara Chow ( CN=Barbara Chow/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Shannon Mason ( CN=Shannon Mason/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Gene B. Sperling ( CN=Gene B. Sperling/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Cecilia E. Rouse ( CN=Cecilia E. Rouse/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Charles M. Brain ( CN=Charles M. Brain/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Peter G. Jacoby ( CN=Peter G. Jacoby/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Maria Echaveste ( CN=Maria Echaveste/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Michelle Crisci ( CN=Michelle Crisci/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Julie A. Fernandes ( CN=Julie A. Fernandes/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Sandra Yamin ( CN=Sandra Yamin/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elizabeth Gore ( CN=Elizabeth Gore/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Sally Katzen ( CN=Sally Katzen/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Melissa G. Green ( CN=Melissa G. Green/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Dario J. Gomez ( CN=Dario J. Gomez/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Jessica L. Gibson ( CN=Jessica L. Gibson/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Kevin S. Moran ( CN=Kevin S. Moran/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )


READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Karen Tramontano ( CN=Karen Tramontano/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Rahm I. Emanuel ( CN=Rahm I. Emanuel/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP      WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Below is the draft SAP for HR 3736 - Workforce Improvement and Protection
Act. The language in this SAP is nearly identical to the draft SAP that
we cleared (but never released) when the House had expected to take up the
H-1B visa bill before the August recess.   Most of you had previously
cleared the language and the position: Senior Advisers veto
recommendation.

A WH press release was issued on 7/15/98 with the position:  "If Congress
sends the President a bill that increases the cap on H-1B visas but does
not contain (1) a significant training component and (2) meaningful reform
... that ensures the employers recruit U.S. workers before applying for an
H-1B worker and not layoff a U.S. worker in order the hire an H-1B
worker, the President's senior advisers would recommend that he veto the
bill.

The House plans to take up the bill tomorrow (Friday, 9/18) morning.
Please review & provide comments/clearance by cob today.  Thank you.

DRAFT -- NOT FOR RELEASE
September 17, 1998
(House)
H.R. 3736 - Workforce Improvement and Protection Act of 1998
(Smith (R) Texas and 3 cosponsors)

The Administration strongly opposes House passage of H.R. 3736, as amended
by the rule for floor consideration.  If the current version of H.R. 3736
were presented to the President, his senior advisors would recommend that
he veto it.

This bill is intended to respond to a skills shortage in the information
technology industry by increasing the annual cap on the number of
temporary visas for foreign D&specialtyD8 workers under the H-1B visa
program. Regrettably, H.R. 3736, as amended, emphasizes providing
opportunities for foreign workers rather than providing opportunities for
and protecting U.S. workers.

The Administration supports sound and balanced legislative efforts to
address shortages of skilled workers within certain sectors of our
economy. The most important way to increase the availability of skilled
workers must be to improve the skills of U.S. workers and ensure that
employers seek U.S. workers first. While it may be necessary in the
short-term to increase the number of visas for temporary foreign workers,
this must only be done in conjunction with addition·al efforts to increase
the skill level of U.S. workers, including through enhanced training
programs, and meaningful reforms to the H-1B program.



Although this bill provides for certain employers to attest to compliance
with requirements related to recruitment and layoffs, the attestations are
too weak to adequately protect U.S. workers and far too many employers are
exempt from their obligations.   Moreover, the bill, as structured, will
not generate sufficient funds for increased training opportunities for
U.S. workers.   Finally, rather than strengthening enforcement to prevent
employer abuses of the H-1B program, H.R. 3736, as amended, undermines s
orne of the programO,s important enforcement provisions.  .

The Administration wants to work with the Congress to develop a bill that
addresses the growing demand for highly skilled workers, while effectively
protecting and promoting the interests of U.S. workers and enhancing the
international competitiveness of important U.S. industries in a manner
consistent with our international obligations.

* * * * * *   *.
(Do Not Distribute Outside Executive Office of the President)

This Statement of Administration Policy was developed by the Legislative
Reference Division (Schroeder), in consultation with the Departments of
Labor (Taylor), Defense (Raezer), Education (Kristy), Justice (Jones), and
State (Harrison), OSTP (Levinson), NSF (Eisenstadt), USTR (Collins), Chief
of Staff (Tramontano, Echaveste), WHLA (Jacoby), NEC (Rouse), DPC
(Fernandes), OlRA (Chenok), lAD (Farley), NSD (Fox), and HRD (Matlack).

The Departments of the Treasury and HHS did not respond to our request for
views on this SAP.

OMB/LA Clearance:

The Senate passed a similar bill, S. 1723, on May 18, 1998, by a vote of
78-20. The House Judiciary Committee reported H.R. 3676 with an amendment
in the nature of· a substitute on July 29, 1998.

The House adopted a rule on July 30, 1998, providing that the version of
H.R. 3736 that will be ·considered on the House floor will be the Smith
amendment as printed in the Congressional Record on July 29th.   This SAP
comments on and describes the Smith amendment to H.R. 3736.

Administration position to Date

On July 15, 1998, the White House issued a press statement stating that
"[iJf the Congress sends the President a bill that increases the cap on
H1-B visas but does not contain (1) a significant training component and
(2) meaningful reform to the H1-B program that ensures that employers
recruit U.S. workers before applying for an H1-B worker and not layoff a
U.S. worker in order to hire an H1-B worker, the President's senior
advisors will recommend that he veto the bill."

On May 20, 1998, the Attorney General, Secretary of Labor, and Secretary
of Commerce sent a joint letter to the House Judiciary Committee
supporting provisions in H.R. 3736 that would link a temporary increase in
the H1-B visa cap to the enactment of reforms (no lay-off provision, a
requirement to recruit U.S. workers, and increased enforcement authority)
in the program.  Although the bill as reported contained such reforms,
these reforms were weakened (i.e., the no layoff and recruitment
provisions would only apply to D&H1-B dependentD8 employers - see below
for additional description) in the version of the bill to that will be
considered on the House floor.  The letter also raised concerns that the


bill did not include any provisions to encourage additional training of
u.s. workers funded through a modest H-IB application fee.

A SAP was sent to the Senate on May 11, 1998, stating that "[ilf S. 1723
were presented to the President, the Secretary of Labor would recommend
that the bill be vetoed." The SAP opposed the bill because it did not
include meaningful reforms to the program; the temporary increase in the
HI-B visa cap was too large; and the bill undermines efforts to some of
the program's important enforcement provisions.

On April 30, 1998, the npc (Reed) and NEC (Sperling) sent a letter to the
House Judiciary Immigration Subcommittee supporting provisions in H.R.
3736 that would link a temporary increase in the HI-B visa cap to the
enactment of reforms (no lay-off provision, a requirement to recruit u.S.
workers, and increased enforcement authority) in the program.  The letter
also stated that with the addition of meaningful training provisions and a
modest reduction in the level of increase in the annual HI-B visa cap that
the Administration could support the bill.

On April 2, 1998, Justice, Commerce, and Labor sent a joint letter to the
Senate Judiciary Committee "strongly opposing" S. 1723.

In addition, the Department of Labor testified before the Senate Judiciary
Committee on February 25, 1998, supporting reforms to the HI-B temporary
visa program for skilled workers.

Provisions of H.R. 3736

The HI-B nonimmigrant worker visa program currently permits up to 65,000
skilled workers per year to enter the United States and work for up to
three years.  H.R. 3736 is intended to reform the HI-B visa program and
alleviate a skills shortage in the high technology industry in the United
States by adjusting the cap on HI-B visas.

Temporary Employment-Based Nonimmigrants.  H.R. 3736 would temporarily
increase the annual cap on HI-B visas as follows: (1) 85,000 in FY 1998;
(2) 95,000 in FY 1999; (3) 105,000 in FY 2000; (4) 115,000 in FYs 2001 and
2002; and (5) 65,000 thereafter.

H.R. 3736 would limit the annual number of nonimmigrant nonphysician
healthcare workers admitted to the United States, under the HI-B visa
program, in FYs 1999-2002, to 7,500.

Attestations.  H.R. 3736 would require employers that are "HI-B dependent"
to provide certain attestations as part of their application for an HI-B
worker.  An HI-B dependent employer is defined as employing a workforce of
at least 51 employees of which more than 15 percent are HI-B employees.
HI-B employees that have at least a master's degree (or the equivalent) in
a field related to their employment or earn at least $60,000 per year in
wages and cash bonuses would not be counted for the purposes of
determining if an employer is HI-B dependent.

HI-B dependent employers would be required to attest that prior to filing
an application for an HI-B worker they have taken "good faith" steps to
recruit a u.S. worker to fill the job vacancy.  The recruitment steps must
meet "industry-wide standards" and must include an offer of compensation
that is at least as great as what would be offered to the HI-B employee.

In addition, an HI-B dependent employer must attest that hiring an HI-B
worker did not and would not displace a u.S. worker for a 90-day period


before and after the date that the visa petition was filed.  A violation
of this provision would only occur if a foreign worker is hired into a
position which is "essentially the equivalent of the job" held by the
displaced u.s. worker (this refers to responsibilities, location,
qualifications, and experience). The expiration of a contract would not
be considered a lay-off.  In addition, job contractors could be sanctioned
if they knowingly placed an Hl-B worker with an employer who had just
laid-off a u.s. worker or if it is a repeat violation.

Penalties. H.R. 3736 would impose penalties of not more than $1,000 per
violation for employers who violate Hl-B visa program requirements and
these employers would be barred from the program for at least one year.
Employers who "willfully" violate Hl-B program requirements would also be
subject to administrative and civil monetary penalties of not more than
$5,000 per violation and would be barred from participating in the program
for at least one year.  In situations where a "willful" violation resulted
in the displacement of a u.s. worker, the employer could be fined up to
$25,000 per violation and be barred from participating in the program for
at least two years.

Hl-B workers who file a complaint against an employer, but who would
otherwise be eligible to remain and work in the United States, would be
permitted to seek other appropriate employment. The INS Commissioner may
initiate binding arbitration with the Federal ·Mediation and Conciliation
Service to resolve complaints filed by U.S. workers.

The bill would authorize the Secretary of Labor to perform, on a
case-by-case basis, random inspections of employers who have previously
been found to have willfully violated requirements of the Hl-B visa
program. Random inspections would be permitted for the five-year period
following the employer's violation of the visa program.

Fees, Training, and Placement. H.R. 3736 would require the employer, upon
approval of its application, to pay a fee of $250 per Hl-B worker.  This
fee would only apply to application filed between October 1, 1998, and
October 1, 2002.  Half of the fee collected would be used by the Secretary
of Education to assist States in providing grants to eligible students
enrolled in a program studying math, computer science, or engineering.
The other half of the fee would be used by the Secretary of Labor for a
job training demonstration program.

Other provisions of H.R. 3736 would:

 Set out specific guidance related to the computation of "prevailing wage"
for certain higher education and Federal researchers and professional
athletes and for the posting of job notices.

 Require the Attorney General to provide reports to Congress:   (1)
quarterly on the number of aliens who were provided nonimmigrant status
under the Hl-B visa program during the previous quarter; and (2) annually
on the occupations and compensation of aliens granted nonimmigrant status
under the Hl-B visa program during the previous fiscal year.

 Require the National Science Foundation to submit a report to Congress,
no later than October 1, 2000,  assessing the labor market needs for
workers with high technology skills.

 Require the Library of Congress to enter into a contract to study age
discrimination in the information technology field and report to Congress
by October 1, 2000.



 Grant special immigrant status to NATO civilian employees as granted to
employees of other international organizations and diplomats.

 Permit nonimmigrant workers admitted under the H1-B visa program to
accept academic honorarium payments for services on behalf of an
institution of higher education or other nonprofit entity.

Pay-As-You-Go Scoring

Per TCJS (Mertens), HRD (Bond), and BASD (Balis), H.R. 3736 is subject to
the pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) requirement of OBRA because it increases direct
spending and receipts.  Preliminary scoring of H.R. 3736 indicates that
the affect of the bill would be negligible (less than $500,000).

LEGISLATIVE REFERENCE DIVISION
September 17, 1998


