RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Jeanne Lambrew ( CN=Jeanne Lambrew/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:16-0CT-1998 21:13:37.00

SUBJECT:   Status of Medicare Home Health

TO: Charles M. Brain ( CN=Charles M. Brain/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Lawrence J. Stein ( CN=Lawrence J. Stein/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Gene B. Sperling ( CN=Gene B. Sperling/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Charles R. Marr ( CN=Charles R. Marr/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Melissa G. Green ( CN=Melissa G. Green/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
From Chris Jennings & Jeanne

As you all know, the Republicans have been pushing us to accept their
proposal to fix the Medicare home health payment system problem with a set
of offsets that includes increasing the income limits on Roth IRA
rollovers.  Per the senior staff discussion this morning, we were told
that the Roth IRA provision is totally unacceptable. We subsequently
worked with Treasury to develop several alternative financing packages to
offer the Republicans as a substitute for the Roth IRA financing.  We
developed three packages, in consultation with Hill Democratic leadership
and authorizing committtee staff:

1.  "Cats and Dogs": This includes 7 relatively non-controversial tax
offsets that have appeared in other bills and have not yet been used.

2. Limiting enrollment in the Medicare MSA demonstration: This is
basically free money, since no one is signing up for this demonstration
that the Republicans insisted on including in the BBA.

3. Limiting MSA plus some cats and dogs:    This option increases the
amount of savings that can be spent on helping home health agencies a
little more.   (While the home health fixes are generally accepted, some
members from rural state (e.g., Grassley) are unhappy with the proposal
extra funds can help solve this problem) .

Chris and John Tallisman from Treasury briefed Bill Thomas and key
Republican staff on these alternatives, and expressed our opposition to
their offset.   The conversations went well, but as predicted, Mr. Thomas
said that the MSA provision was to him what the Roth IRA provision is to
us.  However, he was open to considering the cats and dogs.  He did push
  ·

us on whether we could support their other tax offset:  a provision that
changes the tax treatment of winnings from gambling and the lottery.  This
is a short term saver, but, depending on how it is structured, can cost in
the out years. Treasury has not yet developed a position on this policy,
but it looks like a compromise may involve this particular offset.

Thus, the ball is back in the Republicans' court. Mr. Thomas was going to
canvas the House Ways & Means committee, and the Senate Finance tax people
were going to closely look at the offsets.    Meanwhile, our Democrats
appear pleased with the way this process has unfolded to date and have
been supportive of our objection to the Roth IRA. As a note, the major
home health agency organization wrote a letter today objecting to the
offset as well.

We will let you know if we have any news over the weekend.


