RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 16-DEC-1998 19:24:13.00

SUBJECT:   Re: Excess Profits Tax

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Treasury tax policy tells me Summers hates the second option, because it's
not really an excess profits tax it's just a tax on revenue, so they
weren't scoring it but could if we want them to.




Cynthia A. Rice
12/16/98 12:14:35 PM
Record Type:    Record

To:      Bruce N. Reed/OPD/EOP, Elena Kagan/OPD/EOP, Laura Emmett/WHO/EOP
cc:
Subject:         Excess Profits Tax

Treausury is completing their options and scores but I got a verbal
run-down.  Here's a summary, I have more details on assmuptions if you
want them:

Size of Excess Profits

Treasury thinks we could credibly argue that the industry's making $2.5
billion a year in excess profits. The possible range is $1.5 billion a
year (Gary Black's estimate) to $4 billion a year.   At a volume of 20
billion, a $4 billion excess profit equals $.20 per pack.

Tax Options

Option 1: Tax the excess profits based on company's reported profits
(revenues minus costs). This will be scored somewhat low, because tax
policy types assume companies could re-arrange their accounting practices
to lower the reported profits.

Option 2: Tax company revenue at a level that would capture the estimated
excess profits. The scoring of this option will be more robust, and this
tax is more likely to be passed onto price. However taxing revenue would
give opponents the opportunity to argue it assumes inflated profits. This
option is one that has been used for the oil industry.


Treasury is scoring these options now and they say they'll   have paper in
the next day or two.


