RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (ALL-IN-1 MAIL)

CREATOR: Dorothy Robyn ( ROBYN_D)     (OPD)

CREATION DATE/TIME: 3-SEP-1996 10:38:13.41

SUBJECT: . FYI

TO: Elena Kagan                                 KAGAN E   (WHO)
READ: 3-SEP-1996 10:45:10.22

TEXT:

==================== ATTACHMENT   1 ====================
ATT CREATION TIME/DATE: 3-SEP-1996 10:19:00.00

ATT BODY PART TYPE:B

ATT CREATOR: Dorothy Robyn

ATT SUBJECT: PTO Bill

ATT TO: John A. Koskinen                            KOSKINEN J

ATT TO: Elaine C. Kamarck                           KAMARC E

TEXT:
One of the remaining issues on H.R. 3460 (Moorhead/Schroeader
Patent Reform bill) has to do with congressional notification if
the President wants to dismiss the Commissioner of PTO.   H.R. 3460
originally said the Pres. could not remove the Comm. prior to the
expiration of his/her 5-year term except "for cause." Justice
argued that such a restriction raised constitutional concerns, and
the Judiciary Committee compromised: the current provision
requires only that the Pres. notify both Houses of the reason for
removal.
Justice and WH Counsel's office want to press to remove even that
requirement.   It's not unconstitutional, in their view, but as a
"functional invasion" of the President's prerogatives, it violates
"constitutional policy."
In the course of arguing over whether that objection should be
raised again in an Admin. letter of support on HR 3460, John
Kamensky expressed a quite different view -- namely, that the
Administration wants the PTO Commissioner to be treated in a
relatively non-political way, and therefore a requirement that the
President notify Congress of the reasons for removal is actually
desirable.   Can you give us some guidance on this?

cc: Elena Kagan, WH Counsel
    John Kamensky, NPR


