RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Michael Waldman ( CN=Michael Waldman/OU=WHO/O=EOP [ WHO 1

CREATION DATE/TIME:25-FEB-1999 16:11:12.00

SUBJECT:    the suspense is killing me. Another topic? (LBJ would know how to handle t

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Clinton To Announce Child Seat Rule

                             WASHINGTON (AP) -- President Clinton is expected
to use
                             his weekly radio address Saturday to announce a
rule requiring
                             that all child safety seats in new cars be
anchored by the same,
                             simple system, The Associated Press has learned.

                             The rule, approved last month by the White
House's Office of
                             Management and Budget and the Department of
Transportation,
                             should help parents avoid the struggle to cinch
the seat with a
                             seat belt, as well as the confusion that results
when using seats or
                             cars of different designs. The design approved
earlier involved
                             installation of a metal bar behind the rear seat
to serve as anchor
                             to toddlers' seats.

                             The government estimates that about 80 percent
of child car
                             seats are not properly installed. If all
children using child seats
                             were restrained properly, 68 children's lives
would be saved
                             annually, according to the National Highway
Traffic Safety
                             Administration.

                             It will take years for all child seats and cars
to have the system,
                             however, because it will be required only on new
products and
                             auto makers will be given lead time to install t
he anchors.

                             Almost two years have passed since Clinton
announced the
                             proposed uniform child seat in a speech. Since
then, the design


                              of the seat anchorage has changed,        in part to
     try to ensure that
                              auto makers could use the same anchor system in
     vehicles sold
                              in other countries.

                              O#AP-NY-02-25-99 1333EST

                               Copyright. Associated Press. All rights
     reserved. This material may not
                               be published, broadcast, rewritten, or
     redistributed.

                                               Home   I   Top of Page


     02/25


