      RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

      CREATOR: Kate P. Donovan ( CN=Kate P. Donovan/OU=OMB/O=EOP [ OMB 1 )

      CREATION DATE/TIME: 8-MAR-1999 16:17:55.00

      SUBJECT:   Draft SAP: House Ed Flex bill

      TO: Charles Konigsberg ( CN=Charles Konigsberg/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO: Sandra Yamin ( CN=Sandra Yamin/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO: Broderick Johnson (   CN=Broderick Johnson/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
      READ:UNKNOWN

      TO: Jonathan H. Schnur ( CN=Jonathan H. Schnur/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO: Barbara Chow ( CN=Barbara Chow/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TO: Tanya E. Martin ( CN=Tanya E. Martin/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
      READ: UNKNOWN

      TEXT:
      The House Rules is expected to meet on H.R. 800, To Provide for Education
      Flexibility Partnerships, on Tuesday (3/9) at 1:00pm with floor action on
      Wednesday (3/10).   We aim to release the SAP by tomorrow morning for Rules
      action.   Please review the SAP and provide comments/clearance by 9:00am
      tomorrow.   Thank you.

      H.R. 800 - Education Flexibility Partnership Act of 1999
      (Rep.Castle (R) DE and 59 cosponsors)

      The Administration supports House passage of H.R. 800, which would ,expand
      the D&Ed-FlexD8 demonstration authority to permit all States that meet the
      eligibility criteria to waive certain statutory and regulatory
      requirements of Federal education programs.  The Administration has long
      supported the concept of expanding ed-flex demonstration authority in a
      manner that will promote high standards and accountability for results,
      coupled with increased flexibility for States and local school districts
      to achieve those results.

      The Administration is pleased with the amendments made by the House
      Committee on Education and the Workforce to D&sunsetD8 the bill upon
      reauthorization of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (to
      ensure consistency between that statute and Ed-Flex), termina'te local
      waivers if achievement levels decline, and require public notice and
      comment before waivers are requested and granted.

      The Administration strongly supports an amendment that is expected to be
      offered to H.R. 800 that would implement the President's proposal for a


long-term extension of the one-year authority to help school districts
reduce class size in the early grades, which the Congress approved last
year on a bipartisan basis.  In order to hire qualified teachers, arrange
for additional classrooms, and take other steps that are necessary to
reduce class size, school districts need to know, as soon as possible,
that the Congress intends to support this initiative for more than one
year.

The Administration also supports amendments designed to: (1) strengthen
accountability provisions to ensure that the Ed-Flex program results in
improved student achievement; and (2) ensure that Federal education
dollars continue to reach the schools and students they were designed to
serve.

**********

(Do Not Distribute Outside Executive Office of the President)

This draft Statement of Administration Policy was developed by LRD (Connie
Bowers) in consultation with the Department of Education (Riddle), and
EIML (White/Mustain).  It was also reviewed by DPC (Kagan/Schnur), OIRA
(Chenok/Werfel), and BRCD (McAllister/Denduret).

OMB/LA Clearance:

BACKGROUND

The Education Flexibility Partnership Demonstration ("Ed-Flex") Act was
enacted in 1994 as part of the Goals 2000: Educate America Act to test the
idea of giving States authority to waive Federal statutory and regulatory
requirements that impede the development and implementation of education
reforms in the State.  Originally limited to six States, this
demonstration authority was extended to12 States by the Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act of 1996.

On March 3, 1999, Secretary Riley sent a letter to the House Committee on
Education and the Workforce supporting the concept of expanding education
flexibility, but supporting improvements that would provide greater
accountability for results.  The letter also strongly supported an
amendment to extend, for six years, the current one-year authority to help
school districts reduce class size in the early grades by hiring more
teachers. The House Committee on Education and the Workforce ordered
reported H.R. 800 on March 3, 1999. A similar bill, S. 280, is pending
before the Senate.

SUMMARY OF H.R. 800

H.R. 800 would authorize the Secretary of Education to carry out an
education flexibility program. Under the program, all States (as opposed
to the 12 allowed in the current demonstration authority) could apply to
waive for at least five years Federal st
 ~,
','    Af{MS Email System                                                        Page 1 of 2
 \




