RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Christopher C. Jennings ( CN=Christopher C. Jennings/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ GPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:12-MAR-1999 21:02:59.00

SUBJECT:   medicare commission

TO: Laura Emmett    CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Jeanne Lambrew ( CN=Jeanne Lambrew/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Sarah A. Bianchi ( CN=Sarah A. Bianchi/O=OVP @ OVP [ UNKNOWN 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Update on Medicare Commission. Next Tuesday afternoon, the Medicare
Commission has scheduled its next and possibly final meeting. Regardless
of whether there is a final vote, it is highly likely that the Commission
will unveil a summary of its policy recommendations that will be perceived
to be their end product. At the time of this writing, it is impossible to
project what will be the final iteration of any such policy. However, it
is very possible that it will include general references to a premium
support policy (which will likely be criticized and viewed with great
suspicion by the base Democrats), an increase in the eligibility age to 67
 (with no viable policy to ensure that it does not increase the number of
uninsured), a limited prescription drug benefit, and very vague language
about the need for additional revenues for the Medicare program in the
future. Laura Tyson and Stuart Altman are still struggling to determine
whether it is advisable for them to support this report, particularly if
they are permitted to submit comments on their position on the aspects of
the proposal they find to be flawed. On Thursday evening, Laura forwarded
a draft document to Senator Breaux that was designed to determine if a
consensus among 12 Commissioners could be reached about how to frame a
final report. The draft included some very constructive analyses around
the definition of the financial challenges facing the Medicare program and
on a number of the proposals that the Commission has been considering. In
a number of areas of the draft, the policies discussed were outlined so
generally as to be vulnerable to subsequent misuse by members of Congress;
this is particularly the case in the areas of financing, prescription drug
coverage, the increase in the eligibility age, and the establishment of an
income related premium. Of most concern, however, is that the draft was
written from the CommissionO,s -- not Laura TysonO,s -- perspective. As of
Friday evening, it was unclear as to how Senator Breaux reacted to this
draft. Laura subsequently indicated her committment to ensure that this
document, if ever utilized, would be carefully amended to reflect
important details that provide essential distinctions between good and
flawed policy.


