RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Jeanne Lambrew ( CN=Jeanne Lambrew/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 19-APR-1999 21:20:08.00

SUBJECT:   Kennedy Drug Bill Released Tomorrow/ Guidance Needed

TO: Elena Kagan   CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: William G. Dauster ( CN=william G. Dauster/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Lawrence J. Stein ( CN=Lawrence J. Stein/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Gene B. Sperling ( CN=Gene B. Sperling/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Melissa G. Green ( CN=Melissa G. Green/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Tomorrow (Tuesday), Senators Kennedy and Rockefeller and Congressmen
Dingell, Stark and Waxman are planning to unveil their prescription drug
proposal at an 11am press conference.

Their proposal has been significantly altered from as recently as Friday
to provide for catastrophic coverage and low-income protections in
addition to a slightly less generous front-end benefit that they were
originally contemplating. The original proposal included a $100
deductible, 20% coinsurance, with a $1,200 cap.  Now, its base package
includes a $200 deductible, 20% coinsurance and $1,200 cap on government
spending.  It also has added a catastrophic benefit so that beneficiaries
who have incurred $3,000 or more in out-of-pocket spending (at $4,200 in
total spending arter the government payments in the base package) would
have no payments. Moreover, because of the concern about the void of
coverage between $1,700 and $4,200 , they have added a Breaux-like
low-income wrap-around benefit.

Clearly, these additions significantly increase the cost of this benefit
package, putting it outside of our range.  However, no one tomorrow will
discuss total cost or premiums -- they will say that they have just sent
the specs to CBO. They will reference possible financing sources as the
Medicare tobacco suit, a tobacco tax, a small part of the surplus, or
spending reductions.

We will need to develop a response to press calls, possibly a statement
about their proposal.

Also, as an addendum, apparently, Moynihan's office is still working on
its benefit option which, at last report, appeared to be closer to the
original Kennedy version. Tuesday is also the Finance Committee's
bipartisan Medicare retreat in which members will get briefed in issues
associated with reform.  Speakers include:  David Walker, Judy Feder,
Bruce Bullen (MA Medicaid director), Lynn Etheridge, Gail Wilensky among


others.


From Chris   J   as well/please call or page with questions.
    EMAILS RECEIVED
    ARMS - BOX 094 - FOLDER -001


    [04/20/1999]




\
"

