RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Mike Cohen <mikec_20904@yahoo.com> ( Mike Cohen <mikec_20904@yahoo.com> [ U

CREATION DATE/TIME:11-MAY-1999 13:31:14.00

SUBJECT:   WADE HENDERSON IS EXPECTING A CALL

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Bruce:

According to Danica '(in a conversation with Ann O'Leary late Friday
evening) Wade is expecting a call from you, explaining why the language
that was circulated last week (Mike Smith's) wasn't acceptable to the
White House.

I don't know if that is consistent with the understanding you and Mike
Myers had when you talked, or whether you were otherwise planning on
calling Wade.  However, it seems like a good idea to me, if for no
other reason than a chance to take Wade's temperature on this directly,
and to see if he offers and additional ideas for acceptable langauge.

On another social promotion issue:  Did you see the stories last week
about LA backing off of its plan to end social promotion this Spring?
Basic story is that they lack the funds ($140 million} and space to
identify and provide summer school help.to the more than 150,000 kids
they expect would fail under the new policy. So they will phase in the
policy, begining this year with grades 3 and 8, and phase in the rest
of the grades over time. Under California law, they are required to end
social promotion k-12 next year; LA's announcement means it is not
clear if they will meet the state requirement next year.

This raises two issues for us:
(1) The feasibility of our requirement:  I hate to sound like a broken
record, but this story suggests that we take another look at a more.
limited phase in of our proposal, starting at just early elementary
grades (or perhaps giving the state or district the option of where to
begin) in 4 years, with the rest to follow.  You may know there is a
battle in NYC between Guiliani and Rudy Crew over the implementation of
an end to social promotion; Rudy G. wants it done faster than Crew is
planning.  The issue is tied up in the broader Rudy G. politics now,
but it once again focuses attention on what is feasible on this issue,
given the large numbers of students involved and the cost of providing
extra services. A couple of more examples like LA and NYC, and elite
media attention may focus more on what it takes to effectively end
social promotion, and less on whether someone is for or against it.

Enforcement:  Fortunately for us, LA had been a year ahead of the
schedule required by California, so there hasn't yet been much
attention to what happens if LA can't meet the requirement for ending
social promotion next year.  I'm trying to get a handle on how the


state is looking at this down the road.  However, the story so far
seems to suggest that there isn't much the state can do to force LA to
do the impossible.  If this pans out, it may raise doubts about our
requirement--after all, if the state can't enforce its own requirement,
how can it enforce ours?

Something to think about.


Do You Yahoo!?
Get your free @yahoo.com address at http://mail.yahoo.com


