RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:17-MAY-1999 12:49:42.00

 SUBJECT:    Supreme Court ruling on Anderson v. Roe

TO: Elena Kagan      CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: J. Eric Gould ( CN=J. Eric Gould/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

 CC: Andrea Kane ( CN=Andrea Kane/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
The Supreme Court ruled 7-2 against California. Below is the AP story;
also attached is the Q&A we did last fallon our position.


                       May 17, 1999; Monday    11:15 Eastern Time

 SECTION: Washington - general news

 LENGTH: 963 words

 HEADLINE:   Court Rules on Welfare Benefits

BYLINE: LAURIE ASSEO
AP-Court-Welfare ,1019

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

BODY:
    The Supreme Court today ruled states cannot pay lower welfare benefits
to
new residents than to longtime residents.

    The justices' 7-2 decision said California's limit on benefits for new
 residents violates the constitutional right to travel.

    , 'Citizens of the United States, whether rich or poor, have the right
 to
 choose to be citizens of the state wherein they reside, " Justice John
 Paul
 Stevens wrote for the court. "The states, however, do not have any right
 to
 select their citizens.' ,

    Stevens said, "The state's legitimate interest in saving money
 provides no
 justification for its decision to discriminate among equally eligible


citizens.   I   I




   In other action today,   the court:'

   Agreed to judge the validity of a federal law that closes state motor
vehicle records to the public. The justices will use a dispute from South
Carolina to decide, sometime in 2000, whether Congress unlawfully usurped
state
governments' authority when it enacted the Driver's Privacy Protection Act
of
1994.

   Made it harder for federal judges to strike down election districts as
products of unlawful racial gerrymandering. The unanimous ruling in a
North
Carolina case could have great influence on redistricting disputes
nationwide
after the 2000 census.

   Left intact a million-dollar libel award against the tabloid newspaper
Globef
or repeating a book's claim that a California man, not Sirhan Sirhan,
killed
Robert F. Kennedy. The justices, without comment, let stand a ruling by
California's highest court that the news media can be liable for repeating
someone else's libelous statement about a private figure.

    Said police do not need a warrant to seize someone's car from a public
placeu
nder laws requiring forfeiture of property linked to crime. The 7-2 ruling
reinstated a Florida man's drug conviction based on the crack cocaine
police
found in his car after seizing it without a warrant. Police said the man's
car
was subject to forfeiture because it had been used to deliver drugs
several
months earlier.

   California's welfare policy would have given people who lived in the
state
for less than a year only the amount of welfare they would have received
in
their previous home state. Fourteen other states have similar laws.

    A federal welfare overhaul enacted by Congress in 1996 specifically
allowed
states to temporarily provide lower benefits for new residents. But the
justices
said today Congress cannot authorize states to enact policies that violate
the
Constitution.

   California lawmakers enacted the lower benefit to save money and
eliminate an
incentive people might have to move in-state to get a higher welfare
check.

   For example, a family of four in California ordinarily would get $673 a
month, while a family who moved into the state from Mississippi within the
past


year would get only $144.

   Welfare recipients challenged the law, saying the limit on benefits
coupled
with California's high cost of living could deprive them of the basic
necessities of life. Lower courts put the law on hold, saying the state
could
not treat new and longtime residents differently.

   In 1969, the Supreme Court invoked the constitutional right to travel
as it
struck down state laws that required one year of residency in that state
to
receive any welfare benefits at all.

   During arguments last January, California's lawyers told the justices
that
reducing benefits for a year would not violate new residents' right to
travel.
New residents would not be much worse off because they still would be
eligible
for other welfare programs such as job training and child care, the
state's
lawyers said.

   Those who challenged the California law said they moved into the state
to
pursue employment, not welfare benefits. One woman who moved from Oklahoma
said
she would not be able to afford housing if her benefits were be limited to
Oklahoma's level of $307 for a family of three, instead of $565 for
longer-term
California residents.

   A federal judge put the welfare limit on hold. The 9th u.S. Circuit
Court of        .
Appeals agreed, deciding California could not justify limiting new
residents'
welfare benefits by saying they would have received the same amount in
their
previous state.

   The 1996 federal welfare law allows the states to enact dramatically
different public-assistance policies. Congress decided to let states pay
lower
benefits to new residents for fear the new system otherwise might lead
states
with higher benefits to become magnets for welfare recipients.

   Congress also worried that other states might "race to the bottom"   by
cutting benefits to push people away. So far there is little evidence that
states with higher benefits have attracted large numbers of welfare
migrants.

   Stevens wrote that while it may be reasonable to assume some people
might
move to a state to receive higher welfare benefits, "the empirical
evidence ...
indicates that the number of such persons is quite small surely not large
enough


to justify a burden on those who had no such motive. ' ,

   Stevens' opinion was joined by Justices Sandra Day O'Connor, Antonin
Scalia,
Anthony M. Kennedy, David H. Souter, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Stephen G.
Breyer.

   Dissenting were Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justice Clarence
Thomas.

  Writing for the two, Rehnquist called the California law a "reasonable
measure falling under the head of a 'good-faith residency requirement. ' , ,

   Other states with different welfare benefits for newcomers include
Florida,
Georgia, Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New
York,
North Dakota, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, Washington and
Wisconsin.
Several of those laws have been challenged in court and have been barred
from
taking effect.

   The case is Saenz vs. Roe, 98-97.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH
---------------------- Forwarded by Cynthia A. Rice/OPD/EOP on 05/17/99
12:43 PM ---------------------------




Andrea Kane
05/17/99 12:27:53 PM
Record Type:    Record

To:      Cynthia A. Rice/OPD/EOP
cc:
Subject:         11/20 Q&A on Anderson v. Roe




==================== ATTACHMENT 1 ====================
ATT CREATION TIME/DATE:   0 00:00:00.00

TEXT:
Unable to convert ARMS_EXT: [ATTACH.D20)ARMS214944943.136 to ASCII,
 The following is a HEX DUMP:

FF57504306050000010A02010000000205000000ED11000000020000AED434FF9595D5E3288156
53FOA95A848B694FC332B4FD9F11572CF7C49CA69949143A869E3E9CE81668C7BEF65AD16C4972

                                                                                  Automated Records Management System
                                             Q&A on Anderson v. Roe                       Hex-Dump ConversIon
                                                November 21, 1998


         Q:   What is the Administration's position regarding California's policy of paying new residents less
              in welfare benefits than current residents?

         A:   The Administration's position is that the federal welfare reform statute (PRWORA) is
              constitutional, and that its residency provision, like other sections of the statute, simply
              gives states additional flexibility to establish welfare policies that best meet their needs.
              The brief argues that the purpose of the provision is to ensure that the new federal law
              would not create new incentives for interstate migration and would not encourage states
              to lower benefits. The brief then argues that the federal district court erred in not
              examining whether California's statute was narrowly tailored to serve these purposes that
              underlie the federal law, and that it is doubtful whether the California statute can meet
              that standard. The brief urged the Supreme Court to remand the case to the federal
              district court to explore that issue.

         Q:   Why did the United States file a brief in the matter given that the U.S. is not a party to the
              suit and the 1996 federal welfare reform statute is not under review?

         A:   The United States filed a friend of the court brief because a clear question was presented
              about what, if any, effect the federal welfare reform act had on states' adoption of different
              benefit levels for new state residents. The U.S. also filed a brief because the case
              implicates important constitutional precedent concerning the right to traveL

         Q:   Does the evidence show that people move from state to state seeking higher welfare benefits?

         A:   There is mixed evidence on this point -- there are no definitive studies. Certainly,
              Congress could reasonably have determined that a provision of this kind would prevent
              welfare recipients from moving in search of higher benefits and states from lowering
              benefits. So far, the evidence indicates that states have not acted in this way and that in
              fact states are spending more per person than they were under AFDC.

         Q:   How many states currently provide a different benefit to new residents?

         A:   Thirteen states provide differential benefits to new residents (California, Florida, Georgia,
              Illinois, Maryland, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, North Dakota, Pennsylvania,
              Rhode Island, Washington, and Wisconsin).


