RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Richard Socarides ( CN=Richard Socarides/OU=WHO/O=EOP [ WHO 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:23-MAY-1999 15:29:39.00

SUBJECT:   Religious Liberty Protection Act losing appeal

TO: Deborah B. Mohile ( CN=Deborah B. Mohile/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Edward W. Correia ( CN=Edward W. Correia/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Maureen T. Shea ( CN=Maureen T. Shea/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
---------------------- Forwarded by Richard Socarides/WHO/EOP on OS/23/99
03:28 PM ---------------------------



        Doug.Case@sdsu.edu
        05/14/99 09:15:00 PM
Record Type: Record

To: Richard Socarides@EOP
cc:
Subject: Religious Liberty Protection Act losing appeal

WASHINGTON BLADE
May 7, 1999
http://www.washblade.com

Washington Blade - May 7, 1999
Washington, D.C.

Liberty or violation?
Former sponsors ponder religion bill
by Kai Wright

A once wildly popular bill seeking to strengthen the ability of individuals
to exercise their religious beliefs in various arenas appears to be losing
its appeal for many Democrats on Capitol Hill because of concerns about how
the measure would impact state and local Gay civil rights laws.

With the bipartisan support it enjoyed last session all but gone, the
success of this year's Religious Liberty Protection Act may be less of a
fait accompli. The bill is expected to fly through its House committee and
reach the floor by Memorial Day, but its prospects on the House floor and
in the Senate are considered far less certain.

Last year's House version of the bill was introduced with 51 original
cosponsors, 23 of whom were Democrats.  It also had the support of groups
ranging in ideology from the evangelical to those advocating greater
separation between church and state. The bill seemed certain to move


speedily through the House and to the Senate, where the measure had similar
bipartisan appeal.  But the legislation was derailed when the House
Judiciary Committee bogged itself down in impeachment hearings and, thus,
was never voted on.

The bill's author, Rep. Charles Canady (R-Fla.), reintroduced the
legislation for the new session on Wednesday, May 5.   But in sharp contrast
to last year, this year's House version had only 11 total cosponsors, only
four of whom are Democrats. All of the Republican cosponsors are members
of the House Judiciary committee, which now must debate and vote on the
bill, while only one Democratic member of the committee signed on in
support.

Last year, an identical Senate version, sponsored by Sen. Orrin Hatch
(R-Utah), was introduced on the same day as the House version with
similarly bipartisan backing.  In perhaps one more sign of the bill's less
certain path this session, no Senate bill has been introduced and Senate
staffers say conversations haven't even begun between key Republicans and
Democrats on doing so.

The Religious Liberty Protection Act seeks to prohibit states from "placing
a substantial burden upon a person's religious exercise" through any state
program receiving federal funding or affecting interstate or international
commerce. The idea, supporters say, is to ensure that individual can
exercise certain religious activities-- such as the wearing of beards,
turbans, or yarmulkes or taking leave on religious holidays otherwise not
celebrated by their employers.  Its goals are attractive to both
conservatives seeking to advance the place of organized religion in society
and liberals who feel that adherents to non-Christian religions are
discriminated against in society at large.

"What the bill intended to do was good," sighed Joel Finkelstien,
spokesperson for Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.).  Nadler was among those who
aggressively supported last session's bill.  But he is now one of several
Democrats who have not recommitted themselves as sponsors of this year's
version.

"He was in favor of the original bill because he supports religious
liberty," Finkelstien explained, but now Nadler is concerned about the
bill's "unintended consequences" for Gay civil rights.

The text of this year's bill has not changed from that of last year's.   The
difference now is that legislators have had more time to understand what
the greater consequences of the legislation might be.

The American Civil Liberties Union, which also originally supported the
bill, is leading an effort now to block it in its current version because
of those greater consequences. The ACLU argues that the bill's current
language would strengthen the efforts of certain right-wing conservative
groups that are seeking to use religious liberty as a license for people to
exercise certain prejudices.  In one arena, right-wing attorneys have been
pressing lawsuits to establish a right for landlords to refuse to rent to
unmarried couples by saying that their religious beliefs oppose such
cohabitation or oppose homosexuality.

The'ACLU's Chris Anders said it would be only a small step to go from that
argument to one that claims laws forcing landlords to rent to Gay people
are also burdens on the rights of people who oppose homosexuality on
religious grounds.  The Religious Liberty Protection Act, he argued, would
be one more weapon in the arsenal of the people seeking such exemptions in


housing, employment, and public accommodations.

The bill is not considered a threat to laws that ban· discrimination based
on race and et·hnicity because protection against those forms of
discrimination is established within the u.s. Constitution. The bill
threatens only laws that ban bias based on grounds not covered in the U.S.
Constitution, such as sexual orientation, marital status, gender identity,
and disability.

Groups supporting the legislation -- including some that are seen as
liberal -- say the ACLU is crying wolf.  Elliot Minceberg, legal director
for People for the American Way, a pro-Gay group that does watchdog work
against right-wing organizations, said the Religious Liberty Protection Act
would have no real impact on the sorts of court battles the ACLU is worried
about.  But Minceberg agreed that recent years have witnessed a distinct
and growing trend in challenges to housing laws that ban bias based on
marital status. And he said People for the American Way is working to find
a way to ensure that the bill doesn't step on Gay civil rights laws (though
he declined to publicly speculate on ways in which the bill could be
amended to achieve that goal) .

While these groups debate the bill's consequences, Democratic supporters
are slowly are backing away.  Spokespersons for three of the five
Democratic members of the House Judiciary Committee who sponsored the bill
last session -- Reps. Nadler, William Delahunt (D-Mass.), and Robert Wexler
(D-Fla.) -- told the Blade this week that they are withholding their
support until questions are answered about how the bill would have impact
on local Gay civil rights laws.

Delahunt's spokesperson, Mark Agrast, explained that Delahunt and "a lot of
other liberal Democrats" who originally backed the bill did so as part of
an ongoing effort to pass a law that protects the rights of religious
groups they feel are often marginalized.  But after detailed discussions on
the bill began last year, he said, they discovered its potentially negative
impact on Gay civil rights.  When those members sought ways to temper that
impact, Agrast explained, they were unable to reach an agreement with
Canady, the bill's author.

"There's a balance that needs to be struck here," he said.   "And this bill
has not been altered in any way to reflect that concern."

Agrast said Delahunt is "in dialogue" with other interested members "in
hopes that some kind of settlement can be reached" that would convince
those concerned about Gay civil rights to rejoin the bill's supporters.     He
declined to speculate on exactly what that settlement could be.

spokespersons for.the other two Judiciary Committee Democrats who supported
the bill last year, Reps. Howard Berman (D-Calif.) and Steven Rothman
(D-N.J.), did not return Blade calls by deadline.  But the ACLU's Anders
said he has spoken with staff members in each of their offices and believes
both are also withholding support

"The sense I'm getting," Anders said, "is that there were a lot of people
who cosponsored the bill last year D( who now are not going to go back on
the bill until it's fixed."

At least one Republican member, Rep. Connie Morella (R-Md.), is also
withholding support because of the Gay civil rights concern.  Morella is
not on the Judiciary Committee, but she was an original cosponsor of last
year's bill. She has often been an advocate for Gay civil rights in her


party.

"[Morella] has not cosponsored it as of yet this particular session,"  said
spokesperson Jonathan Dean.  "I think she would consider the legislation
but, at this point, she has no firm intentions of going on the bill."

Dean said the bill's potential to undercut Gay civil rights laws is
"certainly something for her to consider."

On the Senate side, spokespeople for two key Democrats who led sponsorship
of the bill last session -- Sens. Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.) and Joseph
Lieberman (D-Conn.) -- told the Blade this week that the senators had not
yet begun·discussions with Hatch on a Senate version.  Lieberman's office
said that, ultimately, concerns about how the bill will have impact on
state and local Gay civil rights laws will have to be addressed.

"Apparently some concerns were raised about that language [allowing
landlords to exempt themselves from Gay civil rights laws] and Sen.
Lieberman, as well as several other cosponsors are re-assessing," said
Lieberman spokesperson Dan Gerstein.

"At this point, I would say [Lieberman's support for the bill is]
uncertain," Gerstein added.  "It's gonna depend on the language. And we're
gonna wait to see what gets negotiated on this."

Kennedy spokesperson Will Keyser was less direct. He stressed that Kennedy
and Hatch have not even begun discussing the bill this session and, thus,
"no decisions have been made" on what its content would be. He said that,
given the number of other legislative controversies both senators have been
involved in thus far this session, it would be "inaccurate for me to say
that one thing versus the other is holding it up."

Canady's office did not answer a request for comment on the bill.

The ACLU's Anders predicted the House bill will likely have the full
support of Republican Party leadership. He said his sources tell him the
Judiciary's GOP leadership plans to move the bill out of subcommittee and
have a full committee mark-up by May 19, with an eye to having it on the
House floor by Memorial Day. But he thinks the bill will run into trouble
once it moves to the floor or on to the Senate unless the authors address
the Gay civil rights concerns.

************************************************************************
This message has been distributed as a free, nonprofit informational
service, to those who have expressed a prior interest in receiving this
information for non-profit research and educational purposes only.    please
do not publish, or post in a public place on the Internet, copyrighted
material without permission and attribution.  (Note:  Press releases are
fine to reprint.  Don't reprint wire stories, such as Associated Press
stories, in their entirety unless you subscribe to that wire service.)
Forwarding of this material should not necessarily be construed as an
endorsement of the content.  In fact, sometimes messages from anti-gay
organizations are forwarded as "opposition research."




==================== ATTACHMENT 1 ====================
ATT CREATION TIME/DATE:   0 00:00:00.00


        TEXT:
        RFC-822-headers:
        Received: from conversion.pmdf.eop.gov by PMDF.EOP.GOV (PMDF V5.1-9 #29131)
         id <01JB7BY432340051YW@PMDF.EOP.GOV> for socarides_r@a1.eop.gov; Fri,
         14 May 1999 22:16:37 EST
        Received: from storm.eop.gov by PMDF.EOP.GOV (PMDF V5.1-9 #29131)
         with ESMTP id <01JB7BY2RD9S00431S@PMDF.EOP.GOV> for socarides_r@a1.eop.gov;
         Fri, 14 May 1999 22:16:35 -0500 (EST)
        Received: from mail.sdsu.edu ([130.191.25.1]) by EOP.GOV (PMDF V5.2-31 #34437)

         with ESMTP id <01JB7BXER5PU0009XL@EOP.GOV> for socarides_r@a1.eop.gov; Fri,
         14 May 1999 22:16:04 -0500 (EST)
        Received: from [130.191.242.121] ([130.191.242.121])
         by mai1.sdsu.edu (8.8.7/8.8.7) with ESMTP id TAA11929; Fri,
         14 May 1999 19:15:35 -0700 (PDT)
        X-Sender: dcase@mail.sdsu.edu
        ================== END ATTACHMENT 1 ==================


