 RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

 CREATOR: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN:Cynthia A. Rice/OU:OPD/O:EOP [ OPD 1 )

 CREATION DATE/TIME:10-JUN-1997 13:27:53.00

 SUBJECT:   Archer Substitute Mark

 TO: Elena Kagan ( CN:Elena Kagan/OU:OPD/O:EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Diana Fortuna ( CN:Diana Fortuna/OU:OPD/O:EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ:UNKNOWN

 TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN:Bruce N. Reed/OU:OPD/O:EOP @ EOP      [ OPD 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 CC: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN:Cynthia A. Rice/OU:OPD/O:EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ:UNKNOWN

 CC: LEVINE P     LEVINE P @ A1 @ CD @ LNGTWY [ UNKNOWN 1 )    (WHO)
 READ: UNKNOWN

 CC: Jennifer L. Klein ( CN:Jennifer L. Klein/OU:OPD/O:EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 CC: Barry White ( CN:Barry White/OU:OMB/O:EOP @ EOP [ OMB 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 CC: Emily Bromberg ( CN:Emily Bromberg/OU:WHO/O:EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 CC: Nicole R. Rabner ( CN:Nicole R. Rabner/OU:WHO/O:EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 CC: Emil E. Parker ( CN:Emil E. Parker/OU:OPD/O:EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 CC: Kenneth S. Apfel   ( CN:Kenneth S. Apfel/OU:OMB/O:EOP @ EOP [ OMB 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TEXT:
 My quick read of Archer's substitute is that it's generally good news for
 us:

 Major Problems

 Legal Immigrants.  The mark still grandfathers in elderly non-disabled
 rather than covering those who become disabled in the future.  The battle
 continues.

 possible Problems

 Welfare to Work Tax Credit is smaller than we proposed, allowing only a
 credit of 35% of up to $10,000 in wages during the first year (ours was
 50%), which rises to 50% of $10,000, like ours, in the second year of
 employment.  The credit sunsets in the ye~r 2000.

 Local TANF agency involvement in Welfare to Work. Allows the PICs "sole
 authority" to expend funds they receive "pursuant to an agreement with the


 agency that is administering the State program" -- i.e., the local TANF
 agency.

vocational Education. As you know, the subcommittee narrowed the
percentage of people who could count as working while in vocational
education or high school -- but not as much as expected.  They reported
out a bill saying up to 30% of those required to work could be doing v
ocational education or completing high school (if under age 20) .

Our SAP argued for no change, saying that "The Administration is concerned
with several provisions approved by the Subcommittee that were not in the
budget agreement. For example, the agreement did not address making
changes in the TANF work requirements regarding vocational education or
educational services for teen parents."

Archer's mark, compared to the subcommittee bill, allows more people
attending school to count as working by keeping the percentage at 30% of
those required to work but not counting teen parents in high school within
that cap until 1999.

Things We Like

Welfare to Work: Same as subcommittee except it attempts to further target
the hard-to serve by requiring at least 90 percent of beneficiaries for
competitive grant programs to (1) have 2 of 3 of the following
characteristics -- a) not completed high school and has low skills; b)
needs substance abuse treatment for employment; c) has poor work history
-- AND (2) either a) been on welfare 30 months or more or b)is within 12
months of being ineligible. The earlier draft had been (1) OR (2)

Legal Immigrants.  Several onerous provisions have been changed,
including: 1) The provision requiring sponsors to have incomes of at least
$40,000 has been dropped; 2) SSI and Medicaid benefits for asylees and
aliens whose deportation has been withheld are extended from 5 years to 7
(earlier version e~tended only refugees); 3) A clarification is added on
Cuban/Haitian entrants and certain Amerasian noncitizens which would
provide these groups with benefits -- something that was I believe we
proposed as a technical ealier this year;  4) The bill makes clear that
immigrants whose SSI is restored will also get Medicaid;

 Things to Note

welfare to Work Funds and Child Care.  Language has been added to clarify
that welfare to work funds for "support services" cannot be used for child
care.  I don't know if we think that's a problem or not, but HHS is
arguing that temporary child care (i.e. for someone in job search) should b
e allowed.

FLSA. The mark adds language saying all federal and state health and
safety laws shall apply to the working conditions of recipients and that
workers' compensation must be provided to such workers on the same basis.
as it would be for other workers.  Also, it clarifies that under their
proposal 1) first, a welfare recipient would have to work as many hours as
TANF + food stamp grant would allow when the minimum wage was applied; and
2) then the state can choose or combine i)counting Medicaid, housing,
child care and/or ii) completing the work hours through job search or
various educational activities.
,::>




