RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice!OU=OPD!O=EOP [ OPD 1

CREATION DATE!TIME:18-JUN-1997 19:49:33.00

SUBJECT:   Welfare Events

TO: Elena Kagan      CN=Elena Kagan!OU=OPD!O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N .. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed!OU=OPD!O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Christa Robinson ( CN=Christa Robinson!OU=OPD!O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Diana Fortuna ( CN=Diana Fortuna!OU=OPD!O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Diana got a somewhat mysterious call from Ann Lewis' office last night
inviting us to a meeting which I attended today.  It turned out to be a
small meeting (Ann, Eli Attie, Jen Palmieri) on the Welfare to Work
Partnership proposal for a one-year anniversary event.

They like the idea Eli pitched in his memo to the President to have him go
to a city with a significant number of companies pledging to hire welfare
recipients.  However, they expect the President to be on vacation and
unavailable on August 22nd.  Moreover, in order to frame the one year
anniversary stories for the press, Ann thinks it's best to do an event
7-10 days before the anniversary anyway.  Scheduling recommends either
August 14 or 15th and Eli has recommended the following cities:  St.
Louis, Indianapolis, Columbus, and Baltimore. (Second tier choices would
be Portland, Denver, Los Angeles, Chicago, New York, Atlanta). At first
glance, Ann thought St. Louis would be the best.

If we do the Eli event on the 14th or 15th, perhaps we release a one-year
report on the bill at the White House on the 22nd, as you suggested
Bruce.  I'll start looking into options ASAP.

I used the opportunity to pitch our other ideas as well. Ann suggested
that Tuesday would be the best day next week to release the letter from
the President to Congress on child support, since it's a down day with no
other message currently scheduled.  It's likely that timing will 'coincide
well with the juvenile justice mark up.  I'll work with DOJ, Treasury, and
HHS to coordinate.

There was also a lot of support for having the President announce the new
caseload numbers (which should show we're down 3 million since Jan. '93)
which hopefully will be ready around the first week in July and perhaps
combine it with the child care reg if we don't use that for an
immunization event.  There are a couple of non-message event days before
he goes to Spain
(July 3, 4) where he could make a brief statement on the new numbers or
at the top of another event July 2.  Should we push for a Radio Address?
(Since the President will be in Madrid that week, we're likely to be
bumped by NSC.)  If the numbers aren't ready by the 4th, we could them
until he gets back on the July 21st and do something then.


There was less interest in the DLC conference.   DLC had proposed holding a
welfare to work conference either in D.C. sometime before Aug. 22nd or in
Philadelphia during the National Conference of State Legislators gathering
Aug. 6-10th.  communications/scheduling preferred the idea of having the
President speak to the NCSL conference by satellite because the travel
budget is too tight for him to attend, and because they thought it
accomplished more than the DLC conference could . . Scheduling has regretted
the NCSL request already, but Intergovernmental and Scheduling are
supportive of revisiting it as a satellite. DLC still wants the President
to lead a roundtable discussion on welfare to'work, which I think he would
enjoy, so they proposed to Christa perhaps having that panel here at the
White House and satellite the President's opening remarks to
Philadelphia.   What do you think?   We could develop this idea further
for the weekly to get some direction from POTUS.

Thus, this schedule could look something like:
        June 24th - child support release
        July 2-4th - release new case load numbers
        Aug 6-7th - welfare to work roundtable - DLC and/or NCSL
        Aug. 14-1Sth - Welfare to Work Partnership event in city with
companies
        Aug. 22nd - release some kind of report on the actual anniversary
EMAILS RECEIVED
ARMS - BOX 012 - FOLDER -008


[06/19/1997]


RECORD ,TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Thomas L. Freedman ( CN=Thomas L. Freedman/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 19-JUN-1997 18:24:11.00

SUBJECT:   didja ya see?

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
FYI.   today's Times has newt's ten point "proposal" on race excerpted.
maybe you should call his bluff, say lets work on this and that from his
list ....
II

