RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Diana Fortuna ( CN=Diana Fortuna/OU=OPD/O=EOP   [ OPD I   )

CREATION DATE/TIME:27-JUN-1997 17:28:31.00

SUBJECT:   Executive order for employment of disabled

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD I
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD I    )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
We just got a new and substantially revised version of this draft
executive order, after advice from DOL.   I just talked it through with
John Lancaster of the President's Committee on Employment of People with
Disabilities, who is shepherding it.   It is now going through one more
round of comments from the appointees with disabilities and DOL before the
attention turns to us.   DOL/Seth Harris is supposedly pretty positive on
it.   I have talked a bit to Anne Lewis of NEC on this and will talk to her
more to get their perspective.

The current draft is much more benign that the previous one we saw. There
is no "quota" or goal of employment.  Instead, it has a long preamble on
why this issue is important, a statement that the employment rate of the
disabled should be "as close as possible" to the one for the non-disabled,
and it establishes a federal agency task force, led by DOL, to examine all
agency programs and policies to figure out how to encourage employment of
the disabled.  A few agencies are called on to do specific things, most of
which are OK.  The task force has to report in a year and then biannually
after that until 2002.

The main problem is I'm not sure what it adds up to.  On the other hand,
if it focuses attention on this issue, pleases the community right before
the ADA anniversary, and comes up with a few good ideas, maybe that's OK
-- I'm not sure what our standard for executive orders are.

I can send it to you if you want to see it, but otherwise I am going to
see what additional comments John Lancaster gets and talk to NEC.  I
assume we don't go to Mac Reed/OMB counsel's office to vet this until we
are sure that we like the general idea.  The ADA anniversary is July 26,
so we have to get it moving if we are going to do it.  Any advice is
welcome.


