RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Diana Fortuna ( CN=Diana Fortuna/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 7-JUL-1997 18:56:20.00

SUBJECT:   Grandparents meeting

TO: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Here's what's been happening on this:   Initially, HHS says they were
having great difficulty setting up the meeting with Waters' staff because
of problems coordinating schedules.   So they decided -- without telling us
-- to give up on a meeting and instead have an HHS-Waters phone call, with
Waters' staffer Katherine Atkins.

This happened about 2 weeks ago, with Mary Bourdette of HHS, and she says
it went very well. Mary said she explained that the Administration knows
this is an issue, but we feel there is sufficient flexibility in the law,
between the 20% exemption and the ability to set up state-only programs,
to exempt grandparents where appropriate. Mary said HHS feared that
Waters' approach could potential give an incentive for parents to leave
their kids with grandparents; Waters' staff acknowledged that was an
issue. Water's staffer asked what initiatives we are doing in this area;
Mary told her about initiatives on kinship care, including an informal
study HHS just did, and about the child welfare demonstrations that relate
to this, and sent her some information on it.   Mary told her that Ron
Haskins and Deborah Colton would be important people to talk to on this.

I will call Atkins myself, and can either (1) offer her another meeting
with us; or (2) take her temperature on whether she feels she got a full
hearing with HHS and give her the opportunity to make her case to me or
ask for a meeting. Let me know how you want me to proceed.


