RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Leanne A. Shimabukuro ( CN=Leanne A. Shimabukuro/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD ]

CREATION DATE/TIME: 8-JUL-1997 12:37:25.00

SUB"JECT:   Indian law enforcement directive

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ]
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
The saga continues ...

While OMB is comfortable with the directive, they are now raising concerns
about our cover memo on the directive.  Specifically, they don't think the
committee needs to have 15 members, and they oppose the appointment of
tribal leaders (both which are mentioned.in the cover memo).  The
rationale for their opposition is the same as last week: that this will
"box in the President" into accepting-- and funding-- whatever the
committee recommends.  I'm faxing over their changes to you.   I don't
think we should have to take any of their changes except for changing the
words "recommendations" to "options".

I'm pretty annoyed by this latest effort since they didn't raise any of
these concerns last week.  I particularly think it's worth fighting with
them on having tribal leaders sit on the committee. Justice and Interior
strongly support putting tribal leaders on the committee-- as opposed to
just "consulting with" them, as OMB proposes.   The American Indian
community needs to be an important part of the process, or else it will be
impossible to build a true consensus on how we can improve the law
enforcement problem on Indian Country. [Note: according to Justice, the
Federal Advisory Committee Act is not relevant here with respect to
appointing tribal leaders since they are government leaders as defined by
the Act.]

I already let OMB know that the President has seen both the cover memo and
the directive.  Phil said that he is circulating both for changes as a
matter of record.  I have already spoken with OMB and Justice about this.
It would be helpful if you could give Michael Deich a call to see if we
can come to agreement and get this back on track.
EMAILS RECEIVED
ARMS - BOX 013 - FOLDER -008


[07/09/1997 - 0711011997]
