 RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

 CREATOR: William R. Kincaid ( CN=william R. Kincaid/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

 CREATION DATE/TIME: 9-JUL-1997 11:03:21.00

 SUBJECT:   Re: Revised Cardin

 TO: Robert M. Shireman ( CN=Robert M. Shireman/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Ananias Blocker III ( CN=Ananias Blocker III/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP   OPD 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Kathryn B. Stack ( CN=Kathryn B. Stack/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Michael Cohen ( CN=Michael Cohen/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TEXT:
 I spoke with Mike Smith last night, and he thought this was basically on
 track. One clarification may be necessary, though: the tax credit would
 not be limited to Title I-eligible students, nor would the services
 actually be provided through Title I; instead, the point is that what is
 allowable under Title I and Agostini v. Felton with respect to the
 location of the services, who provides the services, and the nature of the
 services would also be allowed under the the tax credit program.   For
 example, a parochial school could not actually provide the services paid
 for via the tax credit, although the services could be located at a
 parochial school, provided, say, by a public school employee.

 To keep the ball rolling, I have asked legislative counsel at ED to begin
 working on specs, particularly for the education-related provisions, under
 the expectation that at some point Treasury would need to be brought into
 the mix.   As I get additional comments from folks here I can feed them in.

 According to the Department, this week the education groups are beginning
 to really press Cardin on this, so he may be receptive to this kind of
 compromise.




 William R. Kincaid
 07/08/97 05:31:32 PM
 Record Type:    Record

 To:      See the distribution list at the bottom of this message
 cc:
 Subject:         Revised Cardin



When you review what I have done on Cardin, please look at this slightly
revised version. Thanks.

SECOND DRAFT     July 8, 1997

An Amendment to Allow a Tax Credit for Costs and Fees Paid for
Supplementary Educational Services for Children
[possible substitute for Cardin]

  Credit would be for up to [$150 or 50% of the costs incurred, whichever
is less--Cardin amount] per year per child ages 6-18, enrolled as a full
time elementary or secondary school student

 Credit would be for costs and fees paid

 Services provided must be supplementary to the basic educational program,
and can include extra help/tutoring in core academic subjects, including
reading and math, [that the student is studying in school--Cardin language
] [as well as enrichment in art, music etc.]; the credit is not available
for regular tuition costs

  [Allowable services may not include college entrance test preparation
--Cardin language]

 Services must be provided outside the regular school day, which can
include before- or after-school, during summers, or on weekends

 Consistent with Title I and the Supreme CourtD,s ruling in Agostini vs.
Felton , services may be provided at a public school or at another site
(including private religious schools), but may not include sectarian
instruction.

 Services must be provided by the local school district, or under contract
to the local school district, consistent with Title I.

Note: Some districts currently provide after-school or summer services for
free; others have elected to charge for them.   In localities where the
services are provided for free, there is no need for the tax credit
because after-school services are already available.  In localities where
services are only available for a fee, the legislation would aid families
that want extra services for their children. In communities where
after-school tutoring is primarily provided in venues such as Boys and
Girls Clubs, the school district could agree to contract with such
organizations to provide the services. Where no services are currently
offered, the tax credit may encourage districts to begin offering such
services.

Because the services would be provided under the auspices of the local
school district, there would be no need for any sort of D&certificationD8
process as envisioned in the Cardin legislation. Services could be
provided through private organizations under contract to school districts
to the same extent they can presently be provided under Title I.



Message Sent
TO: __________~----~--------------------------------------------------
Bruce N. Reed/OPD/EOP
Elena Kagan/OPD/EOP
"




     Michael Cohen/OPD/EOP
     Ananias Blocker III/WHO/EOP
     Kathryn B. Stack/OMB/EOP
     Robert M. Shireman/OPD/EOP


