RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Jennifer L. Klein ( CN;Jennifer L. Klein/OU;OPD/O;EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:16-JUL-1997 20:37:38.00

SUBJECT:   Misc.

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN;Elena Kagan/OU;OPD/O;EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Chris and I were talking about the child care regulation, and we started
to wonder whether it really makes sense to announce it at the immunization
event. While it matters that the federal government will require proper
immunization in child care centers it funds, the truth is that, according
to CDC, the regulation won't cause many new children to be immunized
(giv'en the requirements that states already have in place). I worry a bit
that the people talking to the press about the immunization rates (e.g.,
state health officers) will poo poo our initiative. I have our friend
Bill Corr looking into this more carefully, so I'm not convinced yet, but
when he gets back to Chris, you two may want to talk about it.  Sorry for
rambling, but I think you get the idea.

On contraception, Melanne asked me to hold off until next week so she and
I can have a longer conversation about it.   (I mentioned it on a call to
her in Portugal.)   So far we've learned that Medicaid covers contraception
 (90% paid for by the Federal government) and the Federal Employees Health
Program's main plan (Blue Cross/Blue Shield) covers it on the same basis
as other prescription drugs.   I'm still stuck on the problem that we
shouldn't get into the business of mandating coverage one body part at a t
ime, but I do agree that it is a bit different since this bill would only
put it on the same footing as other prescription drugs.   I also learned at
one of our Thursday morning "women's" meetings that requiring insurance
companies to cover this polls very well. Anyway, more next week.


