RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:25-JUL-1997 12:46:39.00

SUBJECT:   NGA edits

TO: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: James T. Edmonds ( CN=James T. Edmonds/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Excellent work on the speech, as usual.    I have a few suggestions and
thoughts on how to shorten it:

1. At the end of the 1st full graph on p. 2 ("Fixing our broken welfare
system .. "), I think we should make more of the fact that welfare reform is
working better than most expected.    I would change the last 3 sentences
into a new graph (in bold) that says, "A year ago, I signed welfare reform
into law to make tough work requirements, time limits, and parental
responsibility the law of the land. There was a lot of debate at the time
over whether this bold experiment would work. We still have more to do.
But today, the old debate is over: welfare reform works." That should be
a good soundbite and applause line.

2.  In the next graph, you should add a sentence about state caseload
reduction. Cynthia can give you the specifics.   It would say something
like, "X states have cut their rolls by over 40% in the last 4 years;
Wisconsin (and any others) has cut its caseload in half."

3. On p.3, I would drop the 5 questions, which take a lot of time, and
just say, "We need to take a look at what states are doing in 4 areas that
are critical to moving people off welfare:  jobs, child care,
transportation, and child support."

4. On p. 4, I would move the other area (savings) to 5th (after the child
support graphs).  I would drop the sentence "we all know that some things
are not going so well" since we don't have any specific examples of states
diverting $. This works better as a general caution than as an assessment.

5. On p. 5, instead of "We still have a ways to go before we can declare
victory", I would say, "We still have a ways to make the permanent
underclass a thing of the past."

Thanks -- let me know if you need anything.


