RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Michael Cohen ( CN=Michael Cohen/Ou=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:25-AUG-1997 13:40:21.00

SUBJECT:   Pillars: questions

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Tanya is working on the pillars, and we have met with Bob Shireman. A
couple of questions:

1. On the Standards and school reform piece, we talked about including
choice/charters, urban/failing schools and "bad teachers" as the 3 key
school reform pieces.  Two issues:
this doesn't include other key teaching priorities, including Title V
Urban/rural teachers (which could be incorporated into the urban
initiative if necessary), and the National Board for Professional Teaching
Standards,which is small but important -- to POTUS and to the idea of
standards.. I suggest we broaden the "bad teachers" piece, which is now
just a part of the urban initiative, into a "good and bad" teachers piece,
that talks about attracting and rewarding excellent teachers, and getting
rid of bad ones.
Shireman raised the possibility of folding America Reads into the
standards and reform piece, since it is directly tied to the 4th grade
reading test. I think this is a good idea (and there will still be stuff
left out of the top priority if we add it in--though we may be corning up
against the boundary of fitting lots of things into a single priority) .

2. Bob says that Gene will want to keep two years of preschool as a
significant priority. I'm not clear on where (1) you and Bruce are on this
issue overall; (2) where it fits in with our early childhood/child care
piece, both with respect to our overall priorities and more literally
where it gets incorporated into the pillars. Any guidance?


