RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Diana Fortuna ( CN=Diana Fortuna/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:26-SEP-1997 18:14:43.00

SUBJECT:   New approach to FICA/workfare issue

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Courtesy of the unions, a little known part of Social Security and tax law
has come to light, along with SSA's interpretation of it. Two questions
have emerged:   First, should we give up on Treasury and ask SSA for its
opinion on whether this law exempts workfare participants from FICA
coverage? Second, is SSA's existing guidance on this question already so
helpful and clear that essentially we already have in our possession a
document we could just hand to the Governors and tell them that workfare
participants are already exempt from FICA under certain circumstances?

Background: The Social Security and tax law both state that FICA coverage
and taxes don't apply to a state employee "who is employed to relieve such
individual from unemployment." It dates from 1950, when state government
employees first began to join the FICA system. There is some legislative
history from that time that suggests it applies to people on "work relief."

Social Security has interpreted this language in its handbook, but it
appears that the IRS has never issued an interpretation. According to
SSA's handbook, a program's intent determines whether it is designed to
relieve someone from unemployment. SSA offers two interesting examples:
First, a welfare recipient who performs a service in return for assistance
payments is not covered (not earning credit toward Social Security).
Second, however, a participant in a state program "designed to provide
work experience and training to increase the employability of the
individual" is covered by FICA benefits.

The difficulty here is that all of this relates to FICA coverage (i.e.,
eligibility for benefits), not to FICA taxes. No one at Treasury or SSA
can think of a reason that someone would be eligible for one and not the
other, but nevertheless everyone says it is the IRS that must make the tax
interpretation. Apparently SSA and IRS try to work in tandem on such
questions, but legally I can't determine whether one must defer to the
other.    In any case, if we did hand out the SSA guidance to Governors,
they could rightly respond that this doesn't answer the quest~on of
whether they must pay FICA taxes.

One plausible possibility is that the unearthing of this language will
spur the IRS to make a decision.  It might even affect the content of
their decision, since apparently they were not aware of SSA's handbook
guidance.

Our decision is whether to (I) ask SSA for a more fulsome interpretation
and see what they come up with in the next few days/weeks/months; or (2)


circulate the existing SSA guidance to Governors at an appropriate point
in the process, arguing that this does the trick. We could do both.   (If
we choose the first option, SSA would run its interpretation by the IRS.)


