     RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (NOTES MAIL)

     CREATOR: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

     CREATION DATE/TIME:10-0CT-1997 12:42:50.00

     SUBJECT:    Re: Analysis of Welfare Regulations

     TO: Diana Fortuna ( CN=Diana Fortuna/OU=OPD/O=EOP      @   EOP [ OPD 1 )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP     @   EOP [ OPD 1 )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TEXT:
     fyi
     ---------------------- Forwarded by Cynthia A. Rice/OPD/EOP on 10/10/97
     12:44 PM ---------------------------




     Bruce N. Reed
     10/10/97 12:39:03 PM
     Record Type:    Record

     To:      Cynthia A. Rice/OPD/EOP
     cc:
     bcc:
     Subject:         Re: Analysis of Welfare Regulations

     Yes




     Cynthia A. Rice
     10/10/97 11:12:10 AM
     Record Type:    Record

     To:      Bruce N. Reed/OPD/EOP
     cc:      Elena Kagan/OPD/EOP, Diana Fortuna/OPD/EOP
     bcc:
     Subject:         Re: Analysis of Welfare Regulations

     Thanks. Does your domestic violence comment mean you're comfortable with
     the kind of work participation options but don't want to give states any
     reasonable cause exemptions from time limit penalties if they exempt more
     than 20 percent because they are victims of domestic violence?




     Bruce N. Reed
     10/10/97 11:05:04 AM
     Record Type:    Record

     To:        Cynthia A. Rice/OPD/EOP, Elena Kagan/OPD/EOP, Diana Fortuna/OPD/EOP
     cc:


Subject:         Re: Analysis of Welfare Regulations

Diana, your summary is excellent, and you deserve a vacation for suffering
through 400 pp of HHSese, not to mention the HHSers themselves.

It sounds like we're in for a good fight.    I was concerned about the
following:

1. Waivers. I think we need to bend over backwards to make sure the reg
sends states a strong signal not to use their existing waivers to get
around the time limits and work requirements. We should use the same
strategies we have in mind to prevent bifurcation (withholding case load
reduction credits, not reducing penalties, etc.) to discourage states from
doing this. We should do everything within reach of our legal authority,
and where we lack the authority, we should propose a legislative fix.
('And when Andrea starts, we should ask her to figure out what states are
up to in this regard.)

2. Caseload reduction.   It's absurd and laughable to give caseload
reduction credit to states that expand eligibility, on the grounds that
their case loads would otherwise have gone down.  Caseloads either go down
or they don't.   People are either working or they're not.  If states want
to expand eligibility, they can put those recipients to work.

3. Eligibility changes.  I agree with you - - fingerprinting, drug te'sting,
and sanctions are not fundamental eligibility changes -- they're
enforcement mechanisms. We're in favor of these things.

4. Penalties. It's ridiculous to give states a break for making a good
faith effort based on what they spend ("staff training"!).

5. Other issues.
-- I would like to see some kind of stronger push for states to have in
place the 2 yr work requi+ement. That was the President's whole idea,
after all.
-- What does the reg say about penalizing states for not sanctioning
people who refuse to work?  (Remember the Nickles amendment.)
-- I don't understand the domestic violence time limits options. I
thought we weren't going to do that.

Thanks again.   Great work!   Let's talk next week.


