    RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (NOTES MAIL)

    CREATOR: Paul J. weinstein Jr.    ( CN=Paul J. weinstein Jr./OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

    CREATION DATE/TIME:16-0CT-1997 11:37:11.00

    SUBJECT:    LRM REJ286 -- Judicial Reform Act of 1997

    TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )
    READ: UNKNOWN

    TEXT:
    ---------------------- Forwarded by Paul J. weinstein Jr./OPD/EOP on
    10/16/97 11:37 AM ---------------------------




               Ingrid M. Schroeder
               10/16/97 10:00:57 AM

    Record Type: Record

    To: William P. Marshall/WHO/EOP, Peter G. Jacoby/WHO/EOP, Karen A.
    Popp/WHO/EOP, Paul J. Weinstein Jr./OPD/EOP
    cc: Douglas D. McCormick/OMB/EOP
    Subject: LRM REJ286 -- Judicial Reform Act of 1997

    Attached are OMB comments on the Justice letter regarding HR 1252 - the
    Judicial Reform Act.

    The Justice letter currently states that - "we believe that this
    provision is commendable" and that "we support enactment of this
    provision."

    I wanted to double check with you to make sure that there are no
    objections to editing the letter to take out the explicit support for thia
    provision.

    Please let me know if you need another copy of the letter or if you need
    more information.  If I do not hear from you by COB today - Thursday,
    October 16th - I will assume that you have no objections to the attached
    edits.

    Thanks


    Douglas D. McCormick
    10/15/97 09:37:09 AM
    Record Type: Record

    To: Ronald E. Jones/OMB/EOP@EOP
    cc: Bruce D. Long/OMB/EOP@EOP, Raymond P. Kogut/OMB/EOP@EOP
    Subject: LRM REJ286 -- Judicial Reform Act of 1997

    Ron - -

    I recommend that Justice not take a position on Section 9 which deals with
    adjustments of Judges' salaries. A few points about this provison:


(1)  It would not necessarily, as Justice claims, give federal judges
their first pay raise since 1993. As a matter of fact, Judges appear
almost certain to get an increase this January under the current law.   In
additon, what has prevented judges from getting a pay increase since 1993
is not a defect in current law but language each year in Treasury/Postal
Appropriations denying them, as well as members of Congress and the
Executive Schedule, a pay increase.   Congress could do that just as easily
under this proposed provision as under current law - - there is .nothing in
this provision that guarantees judges an annual pay raise.

(2)  Further, as a practical matter, there is little difference between
this provison and current law. Currently, judges pay raises, as well as
those for members of Congress and the Executive Schedule, are tied to the
Employment Cost Index, capped by the across-the-board increase received by
the General Schedule. The proposed language would tied the raise directly
to the General Schedule - - thus producing in most years the same pay
increase. For example, had the proposed Section 9 been in effect since 1
993 (and assuming Congress had not put language in Treasury/Postal denying
the increase), the raise would have been identical each year to that
produced under current law.

(3)  The other significant part of the proposed Section 9 would remove the
current requirement for specific congressional authorization for judges
salary increases.   This is a matter that it seems to me that Justice
should not be intruding upon. While we may think that specific
congressional authorization of judicial pay raises is a bad idea, this
strikes me as a congressional prerogative that we should stay out of.


