RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Paul J. Weinstein Jr.   ( CN=Paul J. weinstein Jr./OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:17-0CT-1997 16:49:21.00

SUBJECT:    Followup to Race Meeting

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Jose Cerda III ( CN=Jose Cerda III/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
possible Reports

1. Twenty Year Anniversary of the Community Reinvestment Act -- This year
is the twentieth anniversary of the passage of CRA. This law, as you
know, requires banks to lend, invest, and serve ALL the communities in
which the institution is chartered. The President implemented a major
reform of the law in 1995. Because of CRA and the Fair Lending and Fair
Housing, lending rates to minorities have increased dramatically,
especially over the last four years. Although the anniversary date
already occured (we issued a POTUS statement), Treasury would be willing
to do a short anniversary report on CRA and the results since 1977 before
the end of the year.

2. Anniversary of the Fair Housing Act

Next Summer is the anniversary is the anniversary of the Fair Housing
Act. Treasury and HUD have talked about making this a major event. We
could engage with both, agencies about making this into a Presidential or
Vice Presidential event.

Tax Items

Treasury is reviewing data on the Low Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC),
focusing particularly on the efficiency and availability of the LIHTC.
Treasury will conclude this analysis in approximately three weeks. After
that date, we will meet with their staff to discuss an increase in cap.

community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund   Round 3 Grants

1. There will be a Training and Technical Assistance round this fall. A
third round of Bank Enterprise Act (BEA) and CDFI grants will be made next
spring. There will also be a second Presidential Microenterprise Awards
announcement by Treasury next Spring.


