RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Jose Cerda III ( CN=Jose Cerda III/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:23-0CT-1997 14:46:16.00

SUBJECT:   Assaults Directive

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Leanne A. Shimabukuro ( CN=Leanne A. Shimabukuro/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: BrUce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
EK:

I was thinking ... If all else fails (or to reduce litigation risks) can't
we add a hybrid and third component to the directive that requires
Treasury to monitor the continued levels of importation and crime gun
tracings of the sporterized weapons currently permitted to enter the
country, and -- if Treasury finds that there are substantial increases in
the number of these firearms being imported (i.e., from thousands to tens
of thousand or more), or if there is an increase in the number of these
firearms being recovered at crime scenes (i.e., percentage/# traced
increases within the next 30 days) -- temporarily suspend existing
permits, too.

Such a.provision, I would think,'would allow some imports to continue; not
immediately result in a TRO; cover the criticism that existing permits for
hundred of thousand of weapons are wide open; give us more time to
establish a factual predicate to act on all permits, if necessary; and
allow us -- hopefully with a stronger case -- to immediately suspend
imports if their numbers balloon or their presence at crime scenes
increases. This, of course, would not protect us from criticism if there
were just one high-profile shooting with one of these weapons (which ATF
claims has not happened to date) -- and may only be postponing the
inevitable (increases in imports, legal challenges to overall action, etc.)

Just a thought ... Also, Rahm mentioned to me that we should plan to sit
down with the Senators and Administration lawyers -- before we finalize
our decision -- to make sure their bought into our decision -- whatever it
ends up being.   I'll come up with a list of the ,usual gun suspects for
meetings.

Jose'


