RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL      (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Leanne A. Shimabukuro ( CN=Leanne A. Shimabukuro/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:28-0CT-1997 19:22:17.00

SUBJECT:   Central Americans

TO: Jose Cerda III ( CN=Jose Cerda III/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
An update for tomorrow's 2:00pm meeting:  INS was supposed to finally see
the House language today, so we should have a sense of whether they stayed
true to their original principles at tomorrow's meeting.   The House
Republican leadership is set to meet to discuss the bill this Thursday.
Peter Jacoby seemed fairly certain that Haitians will be closed out of the
Republican deal.  Presumably, the leaders will also decide which bill to
stick this on-- DC or CJS approps.  CJS is a more problematic bill from
our perspective, and would be further complicated if 245(i) doesn't get
extended (House votes tomorrow) .

Haitians: INS is preparing some options on    can be done to assist the
Haitians for discussion at our meeting. We    should probably get a sense
from leg affairs on how far we can push any   legislative fix for this group
at this juncture.  FYI: the Hill meeting on   the Haitian issue is now set
for tomorrow at 5:00pm.

Unskilled workers:  It sounds like the Republican deal on this is a
moratorium of the category and grandfathering certain "individuals. At our
last meeting, State was asked to report back on the Mexico implications
and INS was to find out which countries these applicants are coming from.
We should find out how generous the grandfather provision is.

communications: The President will "be in Florida this weekend. Maria or
others may ask whether he should say anything about any of this while he's
down there.

Thanks.


