 RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

 CREATOR: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )
                                                                      ".>
 CREATION DATE/TIME:29-0CT-1997 13:16:32.00

 SUBJECT:    Good story on stds

 TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan!OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Michael Cohen ( CN=Michael Cohen/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TEXT:
 Nice work, Mike.

               Clinton Calls for End to 'Social Promotion' in Schools
                  Education: He backs Chicago program that holds back
 students who flunk.
               His own plan for testing rates an F with conservatives,
 liberals.
               By RONALD BROWNSTEIN, Times Political Writer




  PREV STORY

  NEXT STORY
                              HICAGO--President Clinton on Tuesday firmly
 called on all
                             public schools to end the "social promotion" of
 poorly
                        performing students, even as a joint congressional
 committee
                        appeared ready to kill his proposal for voluntary
 national education
                        standards.
                             Clinton endorsed a pioneering program under
 which the city of
                        Chicago has tested tens of thousands of students for
 promotion and
                        held back unprecedented numbers who failed to meet
 academic
                       standards.
                            At the same time, Clinton directed the
 Education Department to
                       help other school districts replicate another
 cornerstone of the
                       Chicago reform: aggressive intervention by local
 school officials to
                       seize control of failing schools.
                            "I want what is happening in Chicago to happen
 allover
                       America," Clinton said in an appearance at an
 elementary school


                         here. "I challenge every school district to adopt
high standards, to
                         abolish social promotion, to move aggressively to
help students
                         make the grade through tutoring and summer schools
and to hold
                         schools accountable for results."
                              Clinton's embrace of the Chicago reforms
sharpened the lines in
                         a dispute over education standards that has set him
against both
                         liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans.
                              From one side, congressional Republicans are
 saying that
                       Clinton's call for voluntary national tests in
reading and math would
                      undermine local control of education.
                            House-Senate conferees, who are scheduled to
begin meeting
                       today on the principal education spending bill, are
expected
                       eventually to approve language that would bar the
Education
                      Department from developing those tests.
                       .    Late last week, some House Republicans floated
an alternative
                      plan that would fund the National Academy of
Sciences, as well as
                      groups representing the governors and state
legislatures, to develop
                      a system for comparing the results of existing tests
already used in
                       the states.
                            But amid continued resistance from
conservatives to the entire
                      national testing idea, Republicans have not reached
agreement on
                      that proposal. In any case, White House officials
said that
                      alternative is unworkable and would prompt a Clinton
veto of the
                      massive spending bill for the Education, Labor, and
Health and
                      Human Services departments. "It's unacceptable:
done, period,"
                       said one senior White House aide.
                            However, Clinton's remarks Tuesday appeared
aimed less at
                      conservative than liberal complaints about the push
for more testing
                      and standards.
                            The trend toward greater use of testing has
sharply divided
                      Democrats. Proponents, such as Chicago's Mayor
Richard M.
                      Daley, argue that by increasing expectations tougher
tests will
                      encourage better performance from all students and
ensure that they
                      graduate with sufficient skills to enter the work


force.
                           But many liberals and civil rights groups fear
that more testing
                       will put low-income and minority students,
particularly those in the
                       most troubled schools, at a disadvantage and cast a
stigma on them.
                       Those sentiments led almost all African American and
Latino
                       legislators to oppose Clintori's national test
proposal when the
                       House voted to kill the exams last month.
                            Using some of his strongest language yet,
Clinton Tuesday
                       rejected the left's arguments against more testing.
"Ending social
                       promotion does not put children down," he said. "It
gives us a
                       chance to lift all children up. We are not punishing
children by
                       making sure they know what they need to know and
that when they
                       move from grade to grade it means something."
                            Clinton added: "We don't do anyone--especially
our poorest
                       children in our toughest neighborhoods--a favor by
giving them a
                       pass on high standards."
                            Chicago is at the forefront of efforts to
impose higher academic
                       standards through increased testing. Under a
sweeping 1995 reform
                       plan that gave Daley control over the school system,
the city now
                       requires students in the third, sixth, eighth and
ninth grades to pass
                       math and reading tests before they are promoted. Stud
ents who fail
                       the tests must attend summer school.
                            Last summer, chicago spent some $45 million on
summer
                       school for nearly 41,000 students. While most
students passed the
                       tests after the extra instruction, nearly 11,000
third-, sixth- and
                       eighth-graders are being held back this fall;
another 5,500
                       ninth-graders who failed the exams are being forced
to repeat math
                       or reading courses.
                            Several parents and teachers attending
Clinton's speech praised
                       the tough new Chicago standards. "It was a social
injustice when
                       they first started promoting children who hadn't
passed a grade,"
                       said Ralph Turner, a retired Chicago police officer
with a
                       sixth-grader at the Oscar Mayer School, where
Clinton spoke.


                      "The education system was copping out."
                           Chicago has also increased its intervention in
 schools with large
                      numbers of poorly performing students. More than
 one-fifth of the
                      city's 557 schools are now under formal probation,
 which triggers
                      increased oversight, and Chicago schools Chief
 Executive Officer
                      Paul Vallas has "reconstituted" seven of the most
 troubled schools,
                      requiring all principals, teachers and even janitors
 to reapply for
                      their jobs.


