         RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL        (NOTES MAIL)

         CREATOR: Robert M. Shireman ( CN=Robert M. Shireman/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

         CREATION DATE/TIME: 3-DEC-1997 22:22:44.00

         SUBJEC·T:   School Construction

         TO: Janet Murguia ( CN=Janet Murguia/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
         READ: UNKNOWN

         TO: Ron Klain ( CN=Ron Klain/O=OVP @ OVP [ UNKNOWN 1 )
         READ: UNKNOWN

         TO: Judith A. Winston ( CN=Judith A. Winston/OU=PIR/O=EOP @ EOP [ PIR 1 )
         READ: UNKNOWN

         TO: Sylvia M. Mathews ( CN=Sylvia M. Mathews/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
         READ: UNKNOWN

         TO: William R. Kincaid ( CN=william R. Kincaid/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
         READ: UNKNOWN

         TO: Catherine. Livingston ( Catherine. Livingston @ MS01.do.treas.sprint.com @ inet              [
         READ: UNKNOWN

         TO: Thomas_Corwin    Thomas Corwin @ ed.gov @ inet            [ UNKNOWN 1 )
         READ: UNKNOWN

         TO: Barry White     CN=Barry White/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB 1 )
         READ: UNKNOWN

         TO: Jonathan H. Schnur ( CN=Jonathan H. Schnur/O=OvP @ OVP [ UNKNOWN 1 )
         READ: UNKNOWN

         TO: KAGAN_E ( KAGAN E   @   Al   @   CD   @   LNGTWY [ UNKNOWN 1 )   (OPD)
         READ: UNKNOWN

         TO: Scott R. Palmer ( CN=Scott R. Palmer/OU=PIR/O=EOP @ EOP [ PIR 1 )
         READ: UNKNOWN

         TO: Tanya E. Martin ( CN=Tanya E. Martin/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
         READ: UNKNOWN

         TO: Michael Cohen ( CN=Michael Cohen/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
         READ: UNKNOWN

         TO: KARL. SCHOLZ ( KARL. SCHOLZ @ MS01.DO.treas.sprint.com @ inet             [ UNKNOWN 1 )
         READ: UNKNOWN

         TO: Wayne Upshaw ( CN=Wayne Upshaw/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB 1 )
         READ: UNKNOWN

         TO: Jacob J. Lew ( CN=Jacob J. Lew/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB 1 )
         READ: UNKNOWN

         TEXT:
         This memo will be distributed by fax Thursday morning.                (Early comments
         are welcome) .



December 4, 1997


MEMORANDUM TO:     SECRETARY RILEY
                                     SECRETARY RUBIN
DIRECTOR RAINES
BRUCE REED

FROM:                     GENE SPERLING
                                  BOB SHIREMAN

RE:                                  SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION


The attached draft memorandum lays out options for the President on school
construction.  It is based on information provided by your staff over the
past several weeks.  Please provide any comments, edits, and
recommendations to Bob Shireman by tomorrow (Friday) at 10,a.m. (fax
456-2223, phone 456-2803).

CC:     Mr.  Bowles
        Secretary Rubin
        Dr. Yellen
        Ms. Mathews
        Mr.  Podesta
Mr.  Klain
Mr.  Hilley
        Deputy Secretary Summers
Acting Deputy Secretary Smith
        Mr.  Lew
        Ms.  Kagan
Ms. Winston
        Mr.  Cohen
        Mr.  Shireman




DRAFT MEMORANDUM TO THE PRESIDENT




        You have publicly made it clear on a number of occasions -- most
recently at the signing of the Labor~HHS-Education Appropriations Bill
that you will continue to fight to get Congress to address the problem of
the crumbling school infrastructure.  There are two issues on school
construction that need to be considered in the context of FY 1999 Budget
decisions: size and design (spending versus tax).  This memorandum briefly
describes some of the policy and political dynamics around the qUestion of
size, then lays out the pros and cons on the design issue.

Size



        The passback· funds the School Con~truction initiative at $1.9
billion -- down from the $5 billion that was proposed last year.   That
matches a Daschle-Gephardt proposal developed in the late summer as a
last-ditch effort to get a down payment on the school construction issue.
The amount was based on the size of the offset they were able to agree on
(closing a tax loophole). There is no question that an initiative of that
size -- to help address a'$112 billion problem (not including the need
associated with increasing enrollments) -- would not be met warmly by
supporters of a Federal investment in this area.
                                     >
        Pressures for us to re-propose a school construction initiative of at
least $5 billion are coming from a number of quarters:

 Defining issue for Democrats. Democrats see this as a popular initiative
that sets them clearly apart from Republicans.  Some have argued that the
funding should be increased above $5 billion in order to provide more help
to suburbs.

 Urban needs. ·In the context of negotiations over the voluntary national
tests, School Construction came up a number of times with the Black Caucus
as one item that would demonstrate the AdministrationD,s commitment to the
needs of urban schools.

 Class size. Some have suggested that a larger school construction
initiative could be tied to the idea of smaller class sizes.

        Obviously, the reason to keep our investment in school
construction at a lower level has to do with competing demands in the
budget process. You should keep in mind that your proposal was a one-time
investment that outlayed over four years.  If we are constrained by funds
available in the five year budget window, one way to expand our proposal
would be to propose a second investment (or if on the tax side, a longer
investment) for a total of, say, $8 billion over 10 years.

Design

        You need to decide whether we should continue to propose our
School Construction initiative as a mandatory spending proposal or shift
it to a tax credit.

        Spending proposal. The bill you proposed, the Partnership to Rebuild
AmericaD,s Schools, provided a one-time appropriation of $5 billion for
grants to States and localities to pay for up to one-half the cost of
repayment of school construction bonds (or an equivalent amount in cases
where an alternative financing mechanism is used). One-half of the
funding was reserved for the 100 largest school districts. We estimated
that the $5 billion would leverage $20 billion in new
construction/renovation over four years.

         Pros

 The Administration bill in the House gained 116 cosponsors, including
Republicans. A letter signed by 112 of them urges you to include the
same, $5 billion proposal in the FY 1999 Budget.

 The bill was designed to spur additional State and local effort (through
a competitive portion of the funds) and to leverage the Federal funds.  It
is more difficult to design a tax credit that accomplishes those goals.


 This appreach is mere efficient at addressing eur specific geals than a
tax credit (tax incentives asseciated with bends inevitably have seme
inefficiencies asseciated with them) .

 The bill is flexible, allewing fer creative funding mechanisms such as
lease-buybacks, helping districts that are net able to. fleat additienal
bends.

        Cens

 To. prepese $5 billien er mere, we prebably will need to. rely en clesing
tax leepheles as the effset, creating a D&tax-and-spendD8 scenario..

 With a tax-side effset, the spending prepesal and the effset weuld have
to. meve threugh different cemmittees, making the plan mere difficult to.
achieve legislatively -- unless there is a recenciliatien bill.

 While the educatien greups prefer the spending pregram in the abstract,
they weuld prefer a tax-side appreach if it means mere meney ceuld be
dedicated to. the purpese.

         Tax prepesal.   As part ef the Taxpayer Relief Act ef 1997, Cengress
enacted a tax credit prepesal by Rep. Rangel that includes scheel
renevatien (but net censtructien).   The previsien allews State and lecal
gevernments to. issue bends tetaling $800 millien ever two. years.  The
Federal gevernment essentially cevers the interest en the bends threugh a
tax credit, previding the scheels with an interest-free ferm ef
financing.   These bends can be used to. cever certain cests ef
D&academiesD8 that link businesses with the scheels to. develep a
curriculum that is empleyment-eriented (the descriptien is net unlike yeur
Scheel-te-Werk pregram). The bend preceeds can be used fer a variety ef
expenses: rehabilitatien, repairs, technelegy, equipment, curriculum
develepment, and teacher training.

        While supperters ef scheel censtructien were pleased to. see
Cengress ratify a prepesal that included scheel renevatien, they de net
see the Rangel plan as a sufficient appreach fer two. reasens: (l) its
narrew fecus en these schoel-business academies, and (2) the bread use ef
funds.

        This bend/tax credit design ceuld be expanded to. fecus mere
squarely en scheel censtructien and renevatien, and beyend the academies
in the Rangel previsien.  Fer example, Rep. Leretta Sanchez intreduced
legislatien in Octeber that weuld use the bend mechanism to. suppert scheel
censtructien in evercrewded districts. We weuld net need to. previde
detailed specifics in the budget.  We ceuld simply say that the bend/tax
credit weuld be extended and expanded to. assist scheel districts with
their scheel censtructien and renevatien needs.   Then we ceuld werk with
Mr. Rangel and ethers en the details.

        Pres

        We can mere easily prepese a larger initiative en the tax side.

         A tax-side initiative will be revenue-neutral, and beth the
pregram and the effset weuld be handled by the same cemmittees in Cengress.

 The Senate spenser ef eur Scheel Censtructien legislatien -- Sen.
Meseley-Braun -- is en the Finance Cemmittee and weuld suppert the idea ef
a tax-side appreach that she ceuld push there.            .



         We might be able to develop a proposal that would have the strong
support of the ranking member in the House (Mr. Rangel).

        Cons

         The bond/tax-credit approach is unusual, so we do not yet know
how well it will work.

         The bells and whistles that we built into out School Construction
proposal    leveraging, rewarding State investments, etc. -- would not be
possible in a tax-side approach.

        The House sponsor of our School Construction legislation -- Rep.
Lowey   prefers the spending bill that we proposed this year.

 Rep. Rangel is very committed to his design, and may not be willing to
make the changes that we would want to steer this toward school
construction and renovation and away from his D&academies08 approach.
There is a chance we would have to part ways with him, or accept something
that we do not like and does not satisfy the constituency groups.

Views and Recommendations

        [Treasury strongly supports a spending-side strategy. The tax
credit approach is awkward and inefficient. While Treasury is making
every effort to implement the Rangel provision effectively, it is an
unproven approach -- as would be any tax-side approach to subsidizing
scnool construction.]

        [I support a tax-side approach because it would be revenue-neutral
and might allow us to have an initiative that is larger than $5 billion,
gaining back some of the good will that was lost when we were forced to
drop our proposal as part of the budget agreement.]


