RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Michael Cohen ( CN=Michael Cohen/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 4-DEC-1997 17:26:34.00

SUBJECT:   class size developments

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
I'm heading home to pick up my daughter, and not returning this evening,
on the assumption that Bruce correctly reported that these memo's aren't
due until COB Friday.

Here is the state of play on class size:

1. Morely has not been able to reach Jack Lew, and has left for the day.
He left me a message indicating that he will try again to reach Jack in
the morning--perhaps when he meets with Bruce.

2. Also based on Bruce's direction, my crack team of analysts is working
on three options pending new information from Morley. Option 1 is class
size ceiling of 18 (all options for grades 1 and 2), feds pay consistent
80%, and the cost is $9.2 billion over 5 years. Option 2 is the same, but
at a lower federal contribution (we are looking at a range of options
right now). Option 3 is an average class size of 18, with a ceiling of 20,
and presumably an 80% federal contribution.

3.  I'll work on Elena's edits tonight, and have a new draft first thing
in the morning.

4. My latest conversation with Riley and ED staff--they are strongly
opposed to the requirement for getting rid of bad teachers, on the grounds
that it doesn't fit the overall approach, clouds the message to the
public--smaller classes is an easy message to sell; why complicate it? We
can deal with firing bad teachers in the urban initiative. and we can and
should work with NEA and AFT to figure out how to keep the Republicans
like D'Amato from making teachers unions and bad teachers villian in the
public eye. As both of you know, I've never been particularly enamored
with taking this issue on in this initiative.  I'll try to have something
constructive to suggest by the morning.


