RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Richard Socarides ( CN=Richard Socarides/OU=WHO/O=EOP [ WHO 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:13-DEC-1997 14:48:31.00

SUBJECT:   Clinton administration waivers on Medicaid coverage

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Maria Echaveste ( CN=Maria Echaveste/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
---------------------- Forwarded by Richard Socarides/WHO/EOP on 12/13/97
02:48 PM ---------------------------



        Doug.Case @ sdsu.edu
        12/13/97 02:12:00 AM
Record Type: Record

To: Stuart D. Rosenstein, Richard Socarides
cc:
Subject: Clinton administration waivers on Medicaid coverage

BAY AREA REPORTER
December 12, 1997
http://www.ebar.com

The administration waivers

by Bob Roehr

"White House drops plans for Medicaid to cover cost of AIDS drugs," read
the New York Times headline on Saturday, December 6. The decision, long
talked of privately, was now public. While the Clinton administration
insisted that did not mean it had given up on efforts to expand access to
therapy for low-income people, it offered no other options that they were
exploring.

AIDS advocates have long sought to extend access to care for PWAs through
an expansion of Medicaid under the waiver process. Their·aim is to
implement federal treatment guidelines for HIV. They thought they had won
the political game in April, when Vice President Al Gore made a commitment
to a fast track exploration and decision. But the idea now seems dead, and
advocates are fighting mightily to keep it from being completely buried.

"Right now, only   by will of the Vice President saying politically that he
has put his butt   on the line that he wants to have this happen, is it
happening," said   Clinton administration official Bob Hattoy, a member of
the Presidential   Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS.

One anonymous administration official told the Times that they feared
pressure from other disease groups to include them in any expansion of


Medicaid. The White House didn't want to offer those with HIV special
treatment or appear unfair.

Todd Summers, deputy to Sandra Thurman in the Office of National AIDS
policy (ONAP), said the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)
opposed creating a pilot program in Medicaid. HHS had serious ethical
questions "around creating a small group of people that would be allowed
access to drug treatments" while others were not. Left unexplained was how
this differed from the status quo. 'Revenue-neutrality'

 The principal sticking point for the administration is "revenue-neutrality"
 - in other words, it might cost money. Although number-crunchers
 investigated the theory that over a five-year period the reduced costs for
 hospitalization would offset increased costs of early intervention with
,drug therapy, HHS's Victor Zonona said, "We kept running it with different
 assumptions, but we weren't able to make it come out."

The previous day, the services committee of the President's council closely
questioned working level administration officials on the issue.

Tom Henderson asked if in computing revenue-neutrality .they could consider
items outside of Medicaid. "We have not so far," said Kathleen King with
the Health Care Finance Administration. That policy was formulated under
the Bush administration and continued by Clinton, but is not law.

HHS official Gary Claxton said that they "preliminarily included Medicare,
SSI, and SSDI in calculations, but found it was a fairly limited additional
savings," primarily because their time frame was five years. Most costs
during that period are Medicaid, while offsetting expense accrued over a
longer time. They did not take into account savings from preventing new
infections or added tax revenue from keeping people healthy and employed.

Claxton said that on a national basis they don't believe Medicaid expansion
would be 'revenue-neutral. But he left the door open to states to submit
proposals that could create savings in other parts of their state Medicaid
programs and move those savings into increased services for people with
HIV. Thus he shifted the political, and likely the financial, burden from
the federal government to the states.

"I hear you saying that you continue to look at this, but in the next
breath you say, you can't get there from here," said Henderson. "You've got
to step outside of what has traditionally been considered with
revenue-neutrality." councilmember Nicholas Bollman added, "False hope is
just as bad as if you were not working on it at all."

Christine Lubinski, lobbyist for the AIDS Action Council, lashed out at the
Clinton administration. She said that Maine, Massachusetts, and Florida are
actively preparing waiver applications "in the absence of any leadership
from the federal government, including even a letter suggesting this might
be an interesting idea. It is not something states are going to dream up
without feeling that there is some support from the Feds." She has been
asking for a Federal letter for eight months, "and that hasn't happened."

"This is an HHS issue ,of thinking outside the box," she said. "Budget
neutrality is not statutory. If this administration decides it is in the
national interest to expand access. to care to keep people with HIV alive,
they need to demonstrate the political will to do so. Because that is what
this is about."

Councilmember Rabbi Joseph Edelheit concluded,   "As long as budget


    neutrality remains the fundamental template, this will always be some
    strange cat-and-mouse thing that has nothing to do with access to people
    with HIV/AIDS."

    ************************************************************************

    This message has been forwarded as a free informational service.  Please do
    not publish, or post in a public place on the Internet, copyrighted
    material without permission and attribution.   (Note: Press releases are
    fine to reprint. Don't reprint wire stories, such as Associated Press
    stories, in their entirety unless you subscribe to that wire service.)
    Forwarding of this material should not necessarily be construed as an
    endorsement of the content.  In fact, sometimes messages from anti-gay
    organizations are forwarded as "opposition research."




    ==================== ATTACHMENT   1 ====================
    ATT CREATION TIME/DATE:   0 00:00:00.00

    TEXT:
    RFC-822-headers:
    Received: from conversion.pmdf.eop.gov by PMDF.EOP.GOV (PMDF VS.0-4 #6879)
     id <01IR3X6PBSGGOOVJV9@PMDF.EOP.GOV>; Sat, 13 Dec 1997 02:10:56 -0500 (EST)
    Received: from storm.eop.gov(storm.eop.gov)
     by PMDF.EOP.GOV (PMDF VS.0-4 #6879) id <01IR3X6M4L34016QSD@PMDF.EOP.GOV>; Sat,

     13 Dec 1997 02:10:52 -0500 (EST)
    Received: from mail.sdsu.edu ([130.191.25.1])
     by STORM.EOP.GOV (PMDF VS.1-7 #6879)
     with.ESMTP id <01IR3XSWOPDC003ZMU@STORM.EOP.GOV>; Sat,
     13 Dec 1997 02:10:18 -0500 (EST)
    Received: from [130.191.242.121] ([130.191.242.121])
     by mail.sdsu.edu (8.8.7/8.8.7) with ESMTP id XAA26072; Fri,
     12 Dec 1997 23:08:17 -0800 (PST)
    X-Sender: dcase@mail.sdsu.edu
    ================== END ATTACHMENT   1 ==================


