RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Todd A. Summers ( CN=Todd A. Summers/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:17-DEC-1997 16:26:00.00

SUBJECT:     Draft Letter from POTUS to Robert Fogel on Needle Exchange

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ BOP [ OPD 1
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Elena -

Here's the text of the draft letter to Bob Fogel we sent up earlier, in
case you need it. We're getting pushed to get out the response this week,
so I would appreciate it if you'd clear it soon.  Heard the meeting with
EB went ok.

Thanks,

Todd
========================
October 31, 1997

Robert Fogel
Hilfman and Fogel
33 North Dearborn Street, Suite 1700
Chicago, IL 60602

Dear Mr. Fogel:

Thank you for your recent letter outlining your concerns regarding the
AdministrationD,s progress in addressing the AIDS epidemic.

I, too,  take the concerns you have raised quite seriously.   The rising
incidence of HIV infection among those who use illegal intravenous drugs,
their partners, and their children is a major factor in th'e continued
growth of the AIDS epidemic. However, this nation is staggering under an
epidemic of drug addiction which also must be addressed with rigor and
resolve.

Let me assure you that we will continue to support retention of Secretary
ShalalaD,s current authority to rescind the current restriction on the use
of federal funding for needle exchange programs.   This is an important
issue that should be resolved by public health. experts and scientists and
not subjected to political manipulation.

I appreciate the passion which you and other members of the Presidential
Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS bring to the debate.  My commitment to ending
this epidemic, as well as responding to the needs of those already living
with HIV and AIDS, still remains firm.   The AIDS epidemic must be
stopped. and I will take all measures within my authority to achieve that
end.

Sincerely,


