RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Julie A. Fernandes ( CN=Julie A. Fernandes/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD ] )

CREATION DATE/TIME:29-DEC-1997 15:29:57.00

SUBJECT:   INS reform

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ] )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Leanne A. Shimabukuro ( CN=Leanne A. Shimabukuro/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ] )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Elena,

 I spoke with Steve Mertens this morning and explained to him that you had
not signed off on the the draft that I sent to him last week, and thus it
only refectedsuggestions from me and Leanne. Steve informed me that he
sent his old version off to Larry Haas last week (before receiving our
suggestions), but now wants to make some changes to reflect what we sent
him.  I am e-mailing you both Steve's most recent version (990rg.rev) and
a red-lined version (990rg.red) that reflects my suggested edits (not in
eluding the substantive issues discussed below) .  According to Steve,
Michael wants him to complete work on the chapter by noon tomorrow
(Tuesday) .

There seem to be two issues that are being grappled with here.    First,
whether we want to assert that the Administration has "a plan." Steve's
version states that the Administration has developed "a plan to ... " and
the draft that Leanne and I did states that" [a]fter completing our study
of various proposals for reform, including the recent final report of the
 [CIR] , the Administration will put forth a broad reform proposal aimed at
    " I think that we need to figure out whether the assertion that we ha
ve completed work on "a plan" will somehow foreclose our ability to work
with the Congress to develop a "plan" based on the principles that we
outline (therefore not presented them with a fait accompli.    Second, we
should decide whether we want to communicate so directly (as done in the
OMB draft) that we are making a reform proposal because of the CIR
recommendation. Given how different our proposal will be from what they
recommended, I am not sure that we want to characterize ourselves as
responding to the CIR.



julie==================== ATTACHMENT    1 ====================
ATT CREATION TIME/DATE:   0 00:00:00.00

TEXT:
Unable to convert ARMS_EXT: [ATTACH.DO]MAIL45586526Y.316 to ASCII,
 The following is a HEX DUMP:

FF57504370040000010A02010000000205000000750D00000002000023561A7B9E544EAB7A9376
9AB227708F3BA353073F2B918CC9C597DAE6E3F10B5F8F61720852B527E69FA2A29EB006E950B2
CBE253288129D6A326A6E616D2F0605F4961780573010F8E598C248DC1813A3EB1FBC54F268ED4
246EA4C8C8D9158EC4AD1F208B9686B390C93CB8EC7D58B7BD2070E612381E32EOBOD333F28A5B
7AB75AF9E0390FE50E3C94637BOEC1D385E05A3CE1942CE484310B780DDA7B2A56C1A41340DDEB
F339E3635COA1039C5AOA8BBCOE43037B3FBEF425DD7596D2E05D4F29D9D90080EE6A3B64A7A1C
F7D81BBEB732364450507A903841162F94BB74FEF077DDECF78E6598DF78EC5FF380B35E73D528

Reform (CIR) called for major changes in how the Federal Gevemmemfederal government sets

and administers its immigration policy and erganized eafefeemeet and beeefits. The

Administration has studied various proposals for reform, including the CIR recommendations,

and has developed a plan t9 enhaneebroad refonn proposal aimed at enhancing immigration law

enforcement and impfe'feimproving the delivery of immigration services and benefits. The

Administration's plan will build on INS' achievements over the past five years while enhancing

its ability to meet future challenges.



Within the INS, the plan will separate enforcement and service operations in headquarters and

the field to improve efficiency and effectiveness, while strengthening accountability, lines of

authority and leadership. Te Sliflp9rt these struetuml ehanges, managemeat and administrati'fe

impro ..'emeats will be impleraemed te ie6fease the effeeti'feaess of INS' eafefeeraeat and sef'liee

eperatieas. The Administration's plan will also improve coordination among Federal agencies

involved in immigration and establish greater accountability within each agency. These reforms

within the INS and across the government will support and sustain the progress made over the

last five years to enforce our immigration laws and fulfill the Nation's commitment to its

immigration heritage.

major changes in how the Federal Government sets immigration policy and organized

enforcement and benefits. The Administration has studied various proposals for refonn,

including the CIR recommendations, and has developed a plan to enhance immigration law

enforcement and improve the delivery of immigration services and benefits. The

Administration's plan will build on INS' achievements over the past five years while erihancing

its ability to meet future challenges.



Within the INS, the plan will separate enforcement and service operations in headquarters and

the field to improve efficiency and effectiveness, while strengthening accountability, lines of

authority and leadership. To support these structural changes, management and administrative

improvements will be implemented to increase the effectiveness of INS' enforcement and service

operations. The Administration's plan will also improve coordination among Federal agencies

involved in immigration and establish greater accountability within each agency. These refonns

within the INS and across the government will support and sustain the progress made over the

last five years to enforce our immigration laws and fulfill the Nation's commitment to its

immigration heritage.


