RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Todd A. Summers ( CN=Todd A. Summers/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:29-DEC-1997 13:22:18.00

SUBJECT:   Proposed Talking Points for Chris

TO: Lawrence J. Haas ( CN=Lawrence J. Haas/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Richard J. Turman ( CN=Richard J. Turman/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB 1
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Richard Turman is apparently at a meeting at Treasury, so these have NOT
been reviewed by him. The talking points on the Administration's funding
accomplishments had been previously approved by his office.

I just talked to Sandy. She'll be back in Atlanta shortly and is prepared
for a call from Robert Pear. I've left {nstructions to give him her
Atlanta number if he calls. Sandy is calling Daniel Zingali, Director of
AIDS Action Council, to ask that he respond favorably.  I'm going to call
Dr. Hitt, Chair of the President's Advisory Council on HIV/AIDS, and
Winnie Stachelberg, Legislative Director for the Human Rights Campaign.
If we get wind of the likelihood of a bad response, I'll let you know.

I think these points are consistent with the conversation this morning.
If not, can you mark them up with your comments and get them back to me
ASAP before I" fax these to Chris.

Thanks,

Todd

----------------~----- Forwarded by Todd A. Summers/OPD/EOP on 12/29/97
01:16 PM ---------------------------




Todd A. Summers
12/29/97 01:05:06 PM
Record Type:    Record

To:      Richard J. Turman/OMB/EOP
cc:
Subject:         Proposed Talking Points for Chris

Richard

Can you look these over - I'd like to fax these to Chris and Sandy

Thanks - Todd


Increase of $165 Million

Administration is proposing a $165 million increase in the Ryan White CARE
Act, which provides primary care, drug therapies, and supportive services
to people living with HIV and AIDS - this would represent a 14% increase
in Ryan White funding

$100 million of the increase will go to the AIDS Drug Assistance Program
(a set-aside out of Title II) - this represents a 35% increase.

$65 million will go to the other Titles of the CARE Act, which funds care
and services
Title I - Emergency Relief for major metropolitan areas
Title II (other than ADAP) - Grants to states for services and planning
Title III - Early treatment intervention for those who are HIV positive
Title IV- Services for women, children, and youth


Administration's Record on HIV/AIDS Funding

Nearly tripled funding for the Ryan White CARE Act since start of term

Discretionary AIDS funding at HHS increased over 60% since start of term

Specific Federal Funding for State AIDS Drug Assistance Program up nearly
450% since 1996.

AIDS research funding at NIH increased by 50% since start of term

HIV Prevention funding for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
up 27% since start of term



Other Accomplishments

The President worked vigorously to save the Medicaid program, which is the
largest single payor for AIDS services and treatment in the country    in
1997, federal Medicaid expenditures for people living with HIV/AIDS
totaled $1.8 billion, including nearly $500 million for AIDS drugs.

The President established the HIV Vaccine Initiative, with the goal of
finding a vaccine against HIV within 10 years.

The President has pushed for increases in the Ryan White CARE Act,
including a 450% increase in the State AIDS Drug Assistance Program since
1996.

This Administration has supported the research that resulted in the new
treatments that are saving so many lives, with funding for AIDS research
at NIH increasing 50% since the start of this Administration.

Talking Points on Medicaid Expansion Issue

The announcement by HHS that an HIV Medicaid expansion is not feasible at
the present time in no way lessens the AdministrationD,s resolve to
continue to seek workable means of extending life prolonging therapies to
those in need.  This proposed $100 million increase in ADAP reflects that
commitment
   '.
The President has long been committed to health care for all Americans,
and is pleased with the incremental progress that has been made on a
bipartisan basis in recent years,   Insurance reform and increased access
to. health insurance for children are important first steps. But the
ultimate goal of high quality health insurance for all Americans remains.


