RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Thomas L. Freedman ( CN=Thomas L. Freedman/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1

CREATION DATE/TIME: 9-JAN-1998 19:48:06.00

SUBJECT:   Tradeable Work Opportunity Tax Credits

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Here's the premise, and here's the idea

Premises:
1. Businessniess don't actually hire people because of the tax credit.
Its useless. When I talked to them, it generally seemed like they would
hire the person and then claim the credit. The credit was never the
deciding factor.  If the person couldn't do the job, a tax credit wouldn't
make them a desirable employee.

2.  The market for intermediaries (the companeis doing the training and
placement) is biased away from training people on public assistance. The
return is low, the risks are higher-- they have less work experience and
may be more difficult to place with employers.

Idea: Make the tax credit tradeable. A business could give the money to
the intermediary after 6 months if the employee was still there.  This
increases the incentive for intermediaries to train people on public
assistance, increases the number of folks getting trained, and uses
federal dollars more wisely. A tax credit which is currently a reward for
something companies were doing anyhow becomes a way of increasing the
number of employable people. Besides, the companies could always keep the
tax credit if they want.  This really helps smaller businesses that
wouldn't have time to train someone, but wouldn't mind hiring someone off
welfare.

Paul and Mary and I had a meeting .with some (not too knowledgable) folks
pushing the idea.    Whatcha think?


