RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Thomas L. Freedman ( CN=Thomas L. Freedman/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1

CREATION DATE/TIME: 18-JAN-1998 19:19:05.00

SUBJECT:   Food safety Q/A

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Mary L. Smith ( CN=Mary L. Smith/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Jerold R. Mande ( CN=Jerold R. Mande/OU=OSTP/O=EOP @ EOP [ OSTP 1
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
If we get press calls about a Cox newspaper story on food safety saying
USDA was not closing down plants here is a Q/A.  USDA has also sent a
whole load of material to the press office.

Q.  In light of recent articles revealing that USDA did not close down a
plant despite 1,700 violations, what are you doing to make sure our meat
and poultry are safe to eat?

A. There are several important facts to remember in regard to this
story.  First, in every instance cited in the story, inspectors took
action to prevent unsafe food from reaching consumers and to correct
unacceptable practices by the plant Second, the Cox newspaper article is
based largely on events in 1996.  Since that time the Administration has
developed the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP) which it
began implementing in January 1997. Under this system the Food Safety and
Inspection Service (FSIS) can insist on preventative measures to improve
food safety before a plant can reopen. Under HACCP inspectors will use
non-compliance reports to document food safety violations.   These actions
will lay the groundwork for documenting repeated failures.  And where
there are repeat failures, FSIS can and will take formal action to shut
down the plant.   Finally, the Administration has asked Congress for
additional enforcement authority to fine companies for violations of food
safety standards. Currently, USDA can't fine companies that violate food
safety standards.


