RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Michael Cohen ( CN=Michael Cohen/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1

CREATION DATE/TIME: 12-FEB-1998 00:12:11.00

SUBJECT:   nga materials

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP    [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: William R. Kincaid ( CN=william R. Kincaid/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Paul J. Weinstein Jr.    ( CN=Paul J. Weinstein Jr./OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
I know that lowe you the following for nga:

1.   talking points on education for potus

2.   Q's and A's for potus

3.   a response to nga policy statements

In light of the fact that I will be out in CA Thursday and Friday, here is
where things stand:

1. I'll try to get you taking points on Saturday--though I suspect what
is really important here is figuring out what he will say in the opening,
open-press session with respect to Engler, NAGB/tests, and ed-flex.

2. I have asked Jennifer Davis in ED's intergovernmental affairs office
and who stays very close to the gov's, to send me her best sense of the
tough questions we could expect from gov's.  Bill will forward that to you
in my absense, though I would like to see them when I get back over the
weekend. (Bill:  Please fax to my home)

3. with respect to the NGA education policy statements; the Human
Resources statement deals with the Higher Education Act; Shireman is
looking at that, since he as been the point on that bill.

The Executive Committee Block Grant proposal is a bit wierd:  the
education section essentially calls for an extension of Ed-Flex to all
states (we support this; its what we are announcing). However, we know
that NGA has also been working on, and the exec committee approved a few
weeks ago, an education block grant proposal that combines Goals 2000,
Eisenhower Professional Development program (teacher training primarily in
math and science) and an existing block grant proposal.

Surprisingly, thi~ block grant proposal is not included in the NGA
materials. Yet Ray Scheppach talked to me about this the other day, and
Jennifer talked to Carper's staff earlier today to confirm that the Dem's
don't really care about this.   We know it exists someplace.   I've asked
both Emily Bromberg and Jennifer Davis to see what happened.  I'll check
in with them from the road.

4. Elena--you should know that ED staff   (Pauline Abernathy is taking the
lead) is arranging to be briefed by Josh Gotbaum on tobacco issues, in


order for them to bring R~ley up to speed before the NGA meeting.  They
expect he will hear from gov's about this over the weekend, because of his
gubernatiorial ties and because of class size. ED folks are panicked
because they don't know anything about tobacco world. Do you want DPC
(Bruce, you or Tom) to be involved in this in any formal way? Do you want
to brief Riley directly?

I may show up at whatever briefing they arrange--I'll no doubt pick up
some useful info myself!


