RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Jose Cerda III ( CN=Jose Cerda III/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD']   )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 6-MAR-1998 20:15:17.00

SUBJECT:    Weekly II

TO: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO ]
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Leanne A. Shimabukuro ( CN=Leanne A. Shimabukuro/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ] )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP   [ OPD ]
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
EK:

Crime     We have been working with Rahm on a speech outline that
discusses the importance of sharply declining crime rates, and are
considering recommending that you touch on some of its points in your
address to the National Association of Attorneys General next Thursday
(3/12).  In brief, the speech would make the following key points:

I.  Magnitude of drop in crime.    Although everyone knows of New York's
success (66% drop in homicides),   two-thirds of American cities with
populations of more than 200,000   have experienced double digit drops in
murder. Moreover, overall crime    is down to its lowest level in a
generation.

II. Drop in crime should confirm that Washington's dead-end debate on
crime -- prevention vs. punishment -- was wrong. While Washington
continued to fight this battle, state and local leaders led the way and
fought crime on every front.  The 1994 Crime Bill provided important
tools, but some in Washington immediately tried to undo less than a year
after it was passed.

III.    Lessons we should learn from 5 years of falling crime rates:

(1) It's not good enough to tough    we need to be tough and smart.
Penalties and enforcement need to targeted to worst criminals and
unacceptable behaviors. We can't deliver all sanctions to all people for
all violations -- but we can enforce targeted deterrence.

(2) It's   not good enough to react to crime -- we need to solve crime
problems   and prevent crimes from happening in the first place. Community
policing   has started a revolution.  Its premises now need to be extended
to other   parts of the criminal justice system.

(3) According to a new and groundbreaking study (released 9/97), the
single biggest predictor of violent crime is community breakdown -- not
poverty, race, and other demographic factors.  In fact, communities with
shared common values had 40 percent lower crime rates than others.


