RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (NOTES MAIL)

 CREATOR: Thomas L. Freedman ( CN=Thomas L. Freedman/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1

CREATION DATE/TIME: 13-MAR-1998 14:03:15.00

 SUBJECT:    Draft Statement for Monday Press Conf.

TO: Jerold R. Mande ( CN=Jerold R. Mande/OU=OSTP/O=EOP @ EOP [ OSTP 1
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Mary L. Smith ( CN=Mary L. Smith/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

  TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
. READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Scott Ballin from the Campaign for Tobacco Free Kids called today asking
if the President could give a statement to be read at their press
conference with farmers and public health groups announcing their core
principles. There are no members invited.   I'll drop off the Campaign's
draft release for the press conference. Attached is a draft statement.

I've talked to Ford and Robb's offices, as well as OPL and USDA who are
fine with doing it.  I also talked to the NC Farm Bureau which didn't sign
on. The Farm Bureau wasn't really against the coalition and principles,
and wouldn't be unhappy if we gave a general statement of support. They
didn't sign on because they think the principles should include immunity
and they are worried that the public health groups may end up in a
different place then farmers so they "don't want to get in bed now."

The main objection I can think of might be from Lugar (the principles come
out in favor of continuing a tobacco program, he doesn't). But the
statement I've attached would just applaud the coalition for working
together and trying to get a bill, I don't think we need to say more than
that.  I talked about it with Tarplin and he thought the attached
statement would be fine.==================== ATTACHMENT   1 ====================
ATT CREATION TIME/DATE:    0 00:00:00.00

TEXT:
Unable to convert ARMS_EXT: [ATTACH.D411MAIL41161517K.026 to ASCII,
 The following is a HEX DUMP:

FF57504370040000010A020100000002050000003409000000020000790A3332F25B54EFF67F90
FF70228A61AE7A796C456917144E8B07F81EFB9AF2BAA6393086FADDCAD2132029012DF7F9A9BC
9D31DDA770F94CCF0175ED8944119724D551417D513B77FIB158ECA833E75A2825DFCB3F2A2AB9
D86BAF720636FFE579DE393B7A6C57A6995440A476491804281E4FF6E582AEA2A70F54445FD513
D8C5A83B8A29A2D9D94184BDB66CDOAD952927BE04814E8498033E5DIE4490674656172116C086
226C9284F60C70E57F7679FFB67CD9BA3552532A4957077FA89CD870EDABF17312C7F194BIBAFD
8AF8FEC5C438BC47CF6A246FAC596D56A8EE971B8E185245E3D7716BF9632155CC657DE6037965
't.l




                                                                        Automated Records lIJanagement System
                                                                        Hex-Dump Conversion




                                            DRAFT
                        STATEMENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
                                         MARCH 16, 1998



                    I congratulate representatives of public health and tobacco producer organizations for
           their work in promoting effective legislation to reduce disease caused by tobacco products and
           protect American farmers and their communities. Their efforts are,a step in the right direction
           towards enacting bipartisan, comprehensive tobacco legislation. I am firmly committed that
           tobacco legislation protect farmers and their communities, and have made this commitment one
           of the five key elements that I will insist upon before signing tobacco control legislation. I hope
           you will continue your efforts to expand your coalition and to enact comprehensive tobacco
           legislation this year.


