RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 19-MAR-1998 18:24:54.00

SUBJECT:   Joint ONAP and ONDCP Statement

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=E1ena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
---------------------- Forwarded by Bruce N. Reed/OPD/EOP on 03/19/98
06:25 PM ---------------------------


Sandra Thurman    03/19/98 06:18:35 PM

Record Type:     Record

To:      Bruce N. Reed/OPD!EOP
cc:
Subject:         Joint ONAP and ONDCP Statement




At the suggestion of Rahm, we have been working on a joint statement with
ONDCP on needle exchange. The idea is part process (working together to
find some common ground) as well as an opportunity to also get our friend
on the record in support of the Secretary and following the science. The
statement essentially says that we're all committed to stopihg drug use
and HIV, that science should determine our public health policies, and
that Congress has given the Secretary of HHS the statutory authority with
respect to needle exchange.

Anyway, Sandy asked that I call you to say that we're concerned that Kevin
is anxious about any communication between ONDCP and ONAP--a dialogue that
Rahm is encouraging.  I just talked to him and he said that the Secretary
wants to know why we (ONAP) would be issuing a statement at all on this
issue - he was not happy that Sandy met with the General in the first
place.

We think that the joint statement is a good product, even if it never sees
the light of day. We're planning on delivering it to you and Rahm as soon
as ONDCP signs off on it, so you all can decide if it goes out.   It may be
helpful for you to check in with Kevin and explain that this is designed
to support the Secretary.   In the mean time, we will wait to hear back
from ONDCP and let you know.

Thanks,

Todd


