RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Diana Fortuna ( CN=Diana Fortuna/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1

CREATION DATE/TIME:27-MAR-1998 17:40:43.00

SUBJECT:   Service event on April 21st to commemorate service summit anniversary

TO: Elena Kagan     CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: "Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP      OPD 1
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Christa Robinson ( CN=Christa Robinson/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Paul J. weinstein Jr.   ( CN=Paul J. Weinstein Jr./OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
It looks like people here are buying into a service summit an~versary
event on April 21st, which is National Youth Service Day.   The timing is
good given that Powell's big press conference is April 27th, at a special
meeting of the US Conference of Mayors.  He will release a one-year
progress report there.  (I am making sure the federal agencies have good
updates for that publication.)  Actually, America's Promise is dedicating
each of the 5(?) weeks in April to one of the five goals, but they don't
seem to be garnering much attention with that so far.

The Corporation's best idea for an event is for the President to help
restore Langdon Park, a large park/recreation center in DC. AmeriCorps'
NCCC is organizing a community clean-up that day with youth volunteers.
But it would be good to come up with announcements of some sort.   I will
do an update on what we've accomplished since the summit, but that format
was met with yawns when I did a 6-~onth version in November. Harris is
pushing us to announce another new award for service:  the President's
Student Service Awards.  It's for young people who do at least 100 hours
of service, modeled on the President's Physical Fitness Award.   It's not
bad, but we've done so many awards it could be confusing.

It also looks like Steve Silverman has persuaded Scheduling that, when the
president is in Kansas City on April 7, he should do a drop-by with
members of Kansas City's summit delegation. At the summit last year, the
president sat in for 30 minutes on meetings of 2 community delegations,
including Kansas City, as they tried to devise a plan to bring the
summit's goals and commitments to their community.  The idea would be that
he would follow up on their progress since last year.  Supposedly
Scheduling insists that it be closed press.

I'll keep you posted.


