RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:30-MAR-1998 19:40:56.00

SUBJECT:   budget graph

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
The biggest unresolved issue is how to allocate tobacco funds. 'The McCain
bill takes care of tobacco farmers, and provides money for smoking
cessation, counteradvertising, and some research, but leaves other
spending issues for the Senate floor.  However, Senator Domenici is
insisting that the Senate budget resolution reserve all tobacco funds for
Medicare, and not even allow the spending provisions in the McCain bill.
On Tuesday, the Senate will take up budget amendments to make tobacco
funds available for class size, child care, NIH, farmers, and other
purposes. Many Republicans have raised concerns about the Domenici
approach, but may not vote against it, because as long as they have 60
votes for a tobacco bill, they can waive' the budget rules anyway.

When the time comes to engage in serious negotiations over how to allocate
tobacco funds, we expect bipartisan consensus on 75-80% of the spending
($10 billion over 5 years for farmers; $10 billion for cessation,
counteradvertising, and other public health programs; $10-15 billion for
NIH; $20-25 billion for states). The battle will be over how to divide up
the remaining $15 billion or so -- Senate Republicans will seek money for
Medicare; House Republicans may push Archer's proposal for health care tax
deductions for small business and the self-employed; Democrats will push
everything from child care to school construction -- and over how much we
can do to ensure that states spend, some of their money on child care,
health care, and education.
'.
