   RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL        (NOTES MAIL)

       CREATOR: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD ] )

       CREATION DATE/TIME: 7-APR-1998 13:00:47.00

       SUBJECT:    Kentuckiana Tobacco Warehouse

       TO: Thomas L. Freedman ( CN=Thomas L. Freedman/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ] )
       READ: UNKNOWN

       TO: Elena Kagan     CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ]
       READ: UNKNOWN

       TEXT:
       I kind of like that -- esp. since we are keeping FDA off the farm.    Do we
       have photos or footage?
       ---------------------- Forwarded by Bruce N. Reed/OPD/EOP on 04/07/98
       01:00 PM ---------------------------




       Glen M. Weiner
       04/07/98 11:43:11 AM
       Record Type:    Record

       To:      See the distribution list at the bottom of this message
       cc:      Thomas D. Janenda/WHO/EOP
       Subject:         Kentuckiana Tobacco Warehouse

       FYI ...

       Referring to the Kentiuckiana Tobacco Warehouse (proposed site for the
       President's event on Thursday), the November 26, 1996 Cincinnati Enquirer
       reported that "A large banner strung across the cavernous warehouse reads
       "Keep the FDA Off the Farm," an oft-repeated slogan as President Clinton
       ponders federal regulations that would classify tobacco as a drug."

       Attached is the full article.




       Message Sent
       TO: __________~~~~~---------------------------------------------
       Bruce N. Reed/OPD/EOP
       Elena Kagan/OPD/EOP
       Thomas L. Freedman/OPD/EOP
       Barbara D. woolley/WHO/EOP
       Christa Robinson/OPD/EOP
       Mary L. Smith/OPD/EOP


       ==================== ATTACHMENT   1 ====================
       ATT CREATION TIME/DATE:   0 00:00:00.00

       TEXT:
       Unable to convert ARMS_EXT: [ATTACH.D75]MAIL44630569N.026 to ASCII,

SECTION: METRO, Pg. B01                                               Automated Records Management System
                                                                              Hex-Dump Conversion
LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Tobacco road paved with gold
Leaves that survived weather and mold bringing good prices

BYLINE: PATRICK CROWLEY

SOURCE: The Cincinnati Enquirer

DATELINE: CARROLLTON

BODY:
 Finally, some good news for Kentucky's tobacco growers.

  Burley tobacco markets opened here and across the eight-state burley belt
Monday - which includes Kentucky and Ohio - with some of the highest per- pound
pnces III years.

  Tobacco companies paid as high as $ 1.92 per pound for the thousands of
bundles of burley stacked in tight rows on the cold cement floor at the
 Kentuckiana Tobacco Warehouse in Carrollton, purposely kept chilly and dark to
maintain the moisture in tobacco leaves.

   This comes in a year that saw the state's top cash crop threatened by tough
new government regulations, battered by bad weather and attacked by blue mold
disease.

  "That's a darn good price," said George Gripshover, 37, who grew about 120,
000 pounds of tobacco this year on his family's 50-acre Big Bone Road Farm near
Union in Boone County.

   Mr. Gripshover was one of dozens of growers from the northern and central
parts of the state who gathered at one of Carrollton's three tobacco warehouses
to begin selling this year's crop.

   "It's been kind of a rough year, with the weather and all," he said. "This
price helps make up for some of that, but we'll probably be down a little in how
much we bring in this year."

  Last year's average price was $ 1.85 a pound, said Billy Tackett, a U.S.
Department of Agriculture grader from Stamping Ground, Ky.
                                                                              Hex-DiJmp Conversion

   Growers said the last time they can remember prices going over $ 1.90 was in
the early 1980s.

   Mr. Tackett, whose job it is to "grade," or determine the quality of the
tobacco, said this year's burley "is a good-looking crop."

   "The tan leaves are the best," Mr. Tackett said as he pulled a strip of
tobacco from a bundle to get a closer look. "And there's a lot of tan on the
(warehouse) floor. It'll be a good year for the farmers."

    Melvin Lyons, owner of the Kentuckiana warehouse, said while burley's quality
is up this year, production is down.

   "We had a wet spring, and then it didn't rain when we needed it in the
summer," Mr. Lyons said. "On top of that, we got blue mold, so when it did rain,
the mold spread to other plants and killed some."

   During Monday's auction at Kentuckiana, about 150,000 pounds of tobacco was
purchased by large cigarette makers like R.J. Reynolds and American Brands.

   By the time the sales end in January, Mr. Lyons expects to have moved more
than 3 million pounds.

   Grower Damon Lewis hopes to harvest as much as 140,000 pounds of tobacco from
his 70-acre farm outside of Ghent, a small Carroll County farm town that sits
along the Ohio River a few miles west of Carrollton.

  But his overall crop will be down about 10 percent this year, thanks to the
weather and the blue mold.

   "Seems like it's always something we have to worry about," said Mr. Lewis,
who sold about 16,000 pounds Monday. "We know we have to deal with the weather,
but it's things we don't have any control over that is so frustrating, like more
government regulations."

   Mr. Lewis, who grew up on a farm, said he would like to see his 4-year-old
son, Brennon, someday take up farming "but I don't know if tobacco will still be
around then.

   "None of us do."

   A large banner strung across the cavernous warehouse reads "Keep the FDA Off
the Farm," an oft-repeated slogan as President Clinton ponders federal
regulations that would classify tobacco as a drug.
                                                                            Hex-Dump Conversion    .   m
   That, growers said, would hurt tobacco sales and possibly lead to its demise.

   Depending on tobacco

   A full-time farmer who also raises dairy cattle and hay, Mr. Gripshover - the
father of children ages 6 and 2 - said tobacco provides the bulk of his annual
Income.

  Talk of regulating tobacco makes him "nervous."

   "I'd wish they'd just leave it alone," Mr. Gripshover said. "There are a lot
of people who ,make their living off tobacco. What are we supposed to do if they
run us offthe farm?"

   Dozens of small towns across Kentucky depend on tobacco to keep their economy
vibrant, said David Lyons, president of Citizens Bank in New Liberty, a tiny
farming community in nearby Owen County.

   "The loss of tobacco, or even a major reduction in tobacco output, would
devastate so many small towns and communities," said Mr. Lyons, whose bank lends
money to many of the farmers selling tobacco at Monday's sale.

   It's not just the farmers who would be hurt if tobacco production would be
seriously reduced, said another Owen County banker at Monday's sale in
Carrollton.

   Ben Lykins, chairman and president of the Citizens Bank & Trust Co. in
Owenton, said that according to the Kentucky Department of Agriculture, the
tobacco dollar turns over six times in communities where it is grown.

   Of Kentucky's 120 counties, tobacco is grown in all but one - Pike County in
far eastern Kentucky. There are about 90,000 farms in the state, according to
the Kentucky Agricultural Statistics Service, and 60,000 of those grow tobacco.

  "Farmers will sell about $ 19 million of tobacco in Owen County this year,"
Mr. Lykins said.

  Seed money

   "That money goes right back into the community, at car dealers, at hardware
stores, at grocery stores and furniture stores, so you can see what kind of
impact tobacco has in a place like Owenton.

  "Multiply that across the state, and you can see what tobacco means to
Kentucky."
    "

                                                                              Automsted R,
                                                                                     H ecordsM,
                                                                                     eX-DiJmp CO~~~e'{)!'fl7ent SVS~e''''
      Fanners are expected to sell about 420 million pounds of burley this year.                   ., '~IOn J' '11
    And it's not just small towns that feel tobacco's economic impact.

       Jefferson County Judge-executive David Armstrong released a statement Monday
    saying agribusiness accounts for nearly 10 percent of all jobs in the Louisville
    area, home of the Brown & Williamson tobacco company.

       "And tobacco processing accounts for 27 percent ofthe area's agribusiness
    payroll," Mr. Armstrong said. "So the continued success of your tobacco crop is
    paramqunt to the economic strength of all Kentucky communities - including urban
    areas like Jefferson County and Louisville."

    GRAPHIC: The Cincinnati Enquirer - Patrick Reddy; Russell Lewis Trapp, 4, of
    Petersburg, watches the tobacco auction Monday of some burley bales. He came
    with his grandfather, Russell Lee Louden, and uncle, Richard Lee Louden., The
    Cincinnati Enquirer - Patrick Reddy; John Barnes, 42, of Carrollton, uses a
    forklift to move tobacco Monday, the opening auction day at Kentuckiana
     Tobacco Warehouse.
EMAILS RECEIVED
ARMS - BOX 026 - FOLDER -010


[04/07/1998 - 04/08/1998]
