RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Clifford J. Gabriel ( CN=Clifford J. Gabriel/OU=OSTP/O=EOP [ OSTP I   )

CREATION DATE/TIME:31-JAN-1997 19:33:40.00

SUBJECT:   Children's Initiative

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD I   )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: John H. Gibbons ( CN=John H. Gibbons/OU=OSTP/O=EOP @ EOP [ OSTP I   )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Elena: Attached is some suggested wording for the State of the Union on a
more comprehensive approach to health, social well being and cognitive
development of children.   I believe this captures what OSTP and DPC has
agreed to do through the joint working group and adds some needed context
to children's issues.    I hope this is useful.  Cliff

        Besides raising educational standards, we must prepare all our
children to learn. Over the next four years, my Administration will
advance a comprehensive program on the health, social well-being, and
cognitive development of children. We need to improve the health and
nutrition of our children; to keep our children away from drugs, tobacco,
and other substances and activities hazardous to their well-being; and to
better understand the developmental aspects of learning. Research in
these ar~as will play a critical role~ just as it did in the development
of the successful Head Start program.  My balanced budget expands Head
Start by one million children by 2002.

        I am pleased to announce we will convene a White House Conference
on Early Learning and the Brain this spring, to apply the newest
scientific insights toward understanding how young children learn. It is
never too early to learn, and we can never do too much to help them.  I am
also establishing a ChildrenJ,s Research Task Force that will link federal
agencies, policy makers, and the scientific community to identify the most
important needs and opportunities in child and family research.


