RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Nicole R. Rabner ( CN=Nicole R. Rabner/OU=WHO/O=EOP [ WHO 1

CREATION DATE/TIME: 4-FEB-1997 18:57:50.00

SUBJECT:   tomorrow's Reiner meeting

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: REED_B ( REED B @ A1 @ CD @ LNGTWY [ EOP 1 ) (OPD)
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Pauline M. Abernathy ( CN=Pauline M. Abernathy/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Jeanine D. Smartt ( CN=Jeanine D. Smartt/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
I wanted to provide some backgound and propose an agenda for tomorrow's
meeting with Reiner, et. al.   Melanne had spoken to Reiner a few weeks
ago and promised this meeting specifically to discuss the President and
Mrs. Clinton's roles in his TV special with all relevant White House
staff. As you may know, he envisions them appearing at the end of the
special in a "call to action" segment.  She then spoke to Don, who said
that, since he and McCurry oversee all POTUS television appearances, they
should be engaged in these discussions.  For that reason, Lorrie McHugh,
Don Baer and Ann Lewis are scheduled to come to tomorrow's meeting.

Reiner, however, is bringing with him the entire group (from Michael
Levine from Carnegie to Ellen Galinsky from the Families and Work
Institute), suggesting that he has other things on his agenda, namely, the
White House Conference on Early Learning and the Brain.

Perhaps it makes sense for Bruce to open the discussion and say that while
we have the Communications folks in the room, we should talk about the TV
special, allowing them to leave if they'd like while we discuss other
issues.

Re: the WH Conference, there obviously aren't a lot of specifics to
divulge to Reiner and company, apart from what the President will have
said in his State of the Union address, but we can convey that we will
certainly be in touch to consult.

On another front, we should probably all sit down at some point to discuss
the Conference.  FYI, Mrs. Clinton has indicated an interest in having the
Conference last for more than two hours, so as to be more credible
(although the President clearly would not need to be there for that long)
and anchoring the Conference in the many practical things that parents can
do to apply the recent research to their youngest children.  Jeanine and I
plan to compress the many recommendations of themes and participants that
we have received, and hope to have a proposal to you by COB Friday.


