     RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

     CREATOR: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

     CREATION DATE/TIME: 4-MAY-1998 16:34:09.00

     SUBJECT:   LOTT RAISES NEW DOUBTS ABOUT CHANCES FOR TOBACCO POLICY

     TO: Cynthia Dailard   CN=Cynthia Dai1ard/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=E1ena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Peter G. Jacoby ( CN=Peter G. Jacoby/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TEXT:
     ---------------------- Forwarded by Cynthia A. Rice/OPD/EOP on 05/04/98
     04:33 PM ---------------------------



             WHITE WI @ A1
             05/04/98 03:08:00 PM
     Record Type: Record

     To: Cynthia A. Rice, Barbara D. Woolley, Richard J. Turman
     cc:
     Subject: LOTT RAISES NEW DOUBTS ABOUT CHANCES FOR TOBACCO POLICY

     Date: 05/04/98 Time: 12:16
     TLott raises new doubts about chances for tobacco policy this year

         WASHINGTON (AP) - Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott today
     wavered on whether Congress' leading tobacco bill will be
     considered by his chamber, once again casting doubt on the chances
     of a national tobacco policy becoming law this election year.
         Scheduling, Lott said, could prevent any tobacco legislation
     from coming up at all. This week's sticky debate over IRS reform
     could delay "a lot of other bills that are in the line here,
     including the possibility of tobacco legislation,"  Lott said.
         He had set aside the last days before the Memorial Day recess to
     take up tobacco legislation because the appropriations process
     would kick in thereafter and leave no time to debate other bills
     for the rest of the year.
         " I never was committed to that,"  Lott said today of the May 18
     date he had set for tobacco debate. " I have said that I thought
     that was a window of opportunity and it had been my intent to see
     if we could get it ready by then. ' ,
         But, he acknowledged, the chances of passing a sweeping tobacco
     bill this year sink considerably after that week.
         "If we don't get it done then, then we don't have many more
     opportunities, " he said.
 '   ....

    But even if the schedule allows time to consider a tobacco bill,
Lott raised new doubts about which one he would bring to the floor.
A sweeping measure sponsored by Senate Commerce Committee Chairman
John McCain    far tougher on the tobacco industry than the $368
billion settlement reached in June    passed his committee last
month 19-1.
     --It could be McCain, it could be a version of McCain, it could
be something else, it could be, you know, any number of things at
this point, " Lott said.
    Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle said minutes later that he
was --surprised to hear that."
     --I would be chagrined and disappointed"  if Lott chose another
bill, he said.
    But Daschle agreed that tobacco policy is dead in the Senate if
not voted on before Memorial Day.
     --If we don't get it done by May, chances are we won't get it
done, " he told reporters.
    The McCain bill has been bewitched by criticism from virtually
every lawmaker and interest group, and the tobacco industry itself
has refused to participate in its voluntary advertising
restrictions. House Speaker Newt Gingrich has savaged it and
refused to consider it in his chamber.
    Lott has said the McCain bill may be too complex to consider
this year. Senate Judiciary Committee Orrin Hatch has called it
--pitiful, " and GOP sources said Assistant Majority Leader Don
Nickles is informally gauging support for a narrower bill.
    But McCain continues to seek a consensus among the interest
groups, the White House and other Senators, and Daschle noted that
his bill continues to be the only one that has passed a committee.
APNP-05-04-98 1217EDT


