RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Michael Cohen ( CN=Michael Cohen/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 5-JUN-1998 19:40:14.00

SUBJECT:   Weekly

TO: Elena Kagan     CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Hope this helps.


Class Size Reduction: Sen. Patty Murray is preparing to introduce your
class size proposal within the next week to ten days. She has lined up
10-12 cosponsors, and believes she can more than double that number before
the bill is introduced if she co~ld identify credible offsets to replace
the tobacco funding.  DPC and OMB have been working with her office to
identify potential offsets, and will have several for her consdiration
early next week. We are working closely with Sen. Murray, with DaschleD,s
office and with NEA, AFT and other education groups to design and carry
out a coordinated legislative, communications and grass roots strategy
that can help us gain some traction on this issue over the next several
months.

Bilingual Education: The House Education and Workforce Committee passed,
on a party line vote, Rep. RiggsD, proposal to replace the existing
bilingual and immigrant education programs with a block grant to states
that requires students to learn English within 2 years.  The Education
Department is nearing completion of an Administration alternative to this
bill, which will be ready for transmission by the end of next week, if you
wish to put an alternative forward. The Hispanic Caucus remains opposed to
the introduction of any alternative at this time; though this situation
could change if, as a floor vote nears, it becomes apparant that other
Democrats will want cover in order to oppose the Riggs bill.


