RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Stephen C. warnath ( CN=Stephen C. Warnath!OU=OPD!O=EOP [ OPD 1

CREATION DATE!TIME:10-FEB-1997 16:04:37.00

SUBJECT:   Two items

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan!OU=OPD!O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Elena -- Two things I need from you, if possible:

1)  Is this NSC conference on treaties and implications for indigenous
people happening tomorrow morning and did you say you had some printed
material that I can look at?

2) Can you help secure a recommendation from Bruce on a memo on the
detention of Golden Venture migrants?

I am dropping off a copy of a memo on detained migrants from the Golden
Venture that I forwarded for decision to Bruce during a very busy time for
him and I don't think he was able to get to it. NSC did not send it up
to the President yet, but asked again today if Bruce could make a
recommendation by tomorrow morning so they could move it along tomorrow.
This is a tough issue, but I think the material I provided to Bruce and am
dropping off with you set it out pretty clearly.  I have added a NYT's edit
orial from this weekend (arguing for a reassessment of detention in light
of the new legislation and length of time detained) and a recent article
that provides some more context. This is on the President's radar screen
-- Rep. Goodling has raised this with the President several times, most
recently on the day of the State of the Union and they have a follow-up
conversation planned on this issue, I understand:   This memo follows an
earlier memo on this topic to which the President requested the views of
the V.P. and Panetta. NSC wants to know whether Bruce would support
Carol's recommendation in the earlier memo for supervised release or wants
to impose continued detention.  Let me know if you need more.

Thanks


