RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Andrea Kane ( CN=Andrea Kane/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:10-JUN-1998 14:09:41.00

SUBJECT:   Announce Portland Welfare Reform Evaluation?

TO: Christa Robinson ( CN=Christa Robinson/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Julie A. Fernandes ( CN=Julie A. Fernandes/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A.   Rice/OU~OPD/O=EOP @   EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
HHS is about to release very positive results from an evaluation of
portland, OR's welfare reform program and wondered whether we might be
interested in doing something with this given POTUS trip to Oregon on
Friday/Saturday.  If not, they'll release next week and I'll just do a
weekly on it.                                                 .

The evaluation, part of the National Evaluation of Weflare-to-Work
Strategies, found a 17% reduction in welfare expenditures and 35% increase
in earnings,  for those in program compared with those in control group.
Other positive results: reduced welfare dependency (41% of partcipants on
assistance after 2 years compared with 53% of control group) and increase
in quality of jobs (full time, with health benefits).  The model is a
"mixed services strategy"--most people went through job search, but many
also participated in short-term education, vocational training, work
experience, and life skills training.    positive results were sustained
over 2 years and are expected to hold up for 3rd year.  Employment and
earnings gains were positive for both more and less job ready participants.

Also of interest, the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities recently
released a study on Oregon suggesting that minimum wage increases can
boost wages for welfare recipients moving to work.


