RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL        (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:11-JUN-1998 16:43:28.00

SUBJECT:     Good job!

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
READ: UNKNOWN


TEXT:
I                    P6/(b)(6)                  I   [COil
---------------------- Forwarded by Bruce N. Reed/OPD/EOP on 06/11/98
04:43 PM ---------------------------




           Jerold R. Mande

           06/10/98 03:58:48 PM

Record Type: Record

To: Bruce N. Reed/OPD/EOP
cc:
Subject: Good job!

I saw you on CNN last night. You did a good job and you looked good too.
More importantly, tobacco legislation is moving forward. Congratulations!

The public health community is fretting over Coverdell, Gramm, etc.
because they are adding them up and worrying that there are no $$ left for
public health.   I disagree.   I think they need to refocus on what is
important - - we are· still in position to win this. We need to stay
focused on our bottom line: 50% reduction in youth smoking in 7 years.
To achieve it we need 3 things: as big a price hike as possible, full FDA
authority, and a number probably below $13B for tobacco control programs.

The biggest problem now is floor discipline -- the Rs now have it and
despite hard work by all of the groups we don't.  So far we are lucky that
the Rs have not used their discipline to go after the essential components
of reaching our 50% goal. But that is likely to change before the Senate
completes its work. We need to redeploy our forces, and stop wasting time
fighting fights we can't win and instead prepare for fights we must win,
like Hatch.

We need to find the Rs to eventually lock down 60 votes for cloture.   KOOp
and the health groups have been working hard at this.  I'm not sure what
their count is, but they are making progress in the reports I have
received (they claim Bennett is their latest pick-up). But probably more
important right now, we need 50 votes to defeat amendments that will keep
us .from our 50% goal. The public health groups should stop w~sting their
capital on amendments like Coverdell and Gramm and line up. the needed Rs to
 defeat truly damaging amendments. If we are lucky, a victory over Hatch
could shift momentum and provide us with a disciplined 50 votes that will
not only defeat the amendments we need to, but possibly pass one or two to
surreptitiously drive up th~ price such as eliminating tax deductibility.


Finally, here is my view of the $$.  Months ago in a Nickles staff
meeting, you remarked off the cuff that in the end the $$ would be split 3
ways between the states, Rs, and Admin/Ds.  Even with Coverdell and Gramm
we are not far from that. Moreover we have flexibility.   Research dollars
can be found elsewhere in the budget, Rs are as committed as we are to
increasing NIH's budget.  Farmers may end up with less than $10B, they
shouldn't have been so greedy in the first place. We could always require
some of the state $$ to fund programs like ASSIST.   And we can probably
do adequate tobacco control for less than $13B.


