RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Andrea Kane ( CN=Andrea Kane/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 15-JUN-199B 16:20:30.00

SUBJECT:   HUD state of the cities on welfare job gap

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP@ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: WEINSTEIN P     WEINSTEIN P @ A1 @ CD @ VAXGTWY [ UNKNOWN 1 )   (OPD)
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
The latest version of HUD's State of the Cities report prominently
features estimates from a forthcoming USCM report (to be released at their
meeting) that show a shortfall of 353,000 jobs for welfare recipients in
74 urban areas. We have not yet seen the report (it is supposed to be on
its way over right now), but the study was done by Regional Financial
Associates who also did a flawed study last year.  The executive summary
of HUD's report that Paul shared with you on Friday hits the high(or low)
points.    Aside from likely methodological problems with the study, our
bigger question is whether HUD should be embracing the USCM report and
estimates in its State of the Cities report.  I worry that the press will
report "HUD cites 400,000 job gap for welfare recipients". While HUD also
pOints out that they believe this gap is surmountable -- for examle, .the
economy has produced 400,000 jobs in the last 6 weeks alone-- this does
not seem like it's going to help the welfare reform message. HUD has
structured its report around 3 findings, including three opportunity gaps:
jobs, education, and housing and wants to use these gaps to motivate
mayors to push for our urban budget initiatives.

We may need to elevate the issue of whether and to what extent HUD relies
on the USCM job gap estimates and would like to know your reaction.


