RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Jose Cerda III ( CN=Jose Cerda III/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:23-JUN-1998 11:59:22.00

SUBJECT:   Other Events

TO: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Leanne A. Shimabukuro ( CN=Leanne A. Shimabukuro/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
EK:

As requested ...

1) Early warning guide release:  In his June 15th radio address, the
President directed the Attorney General and Secretary of Education to
develop an early warning guide for schools to use in dealing with troubled
youth.  This guide should be ready for release by the end of August and
could be combined with a meeting a White House meeting with officials from
Springfield, Jonesboro, and other cities recently affected by school
shootings. The guide will contain research-based information for
principals and teachers on how to identify and refer deeply troubled
youths.

2) Release of First Annual Report on School Safety.  In late
September/early October, the President could release the annual report on
school safety that he ordered to be developed in the wake of the Paducah,
KY shooting. This report will be a comprehensive document that will
contain all data on school crime, discuss successful strategies to reduce
school violence, and include a checklist for parents on school
safety/security.  The release of this report could also be an opportunity
for the President, by satellite, to address hundreds of schools across the
country on school violence -- and for teachers at these schools to conduct
follow-up discussions.

And while we still may want to keep the DUF/ADAM drug numbers and drug
court grants as part of'the media campaign announcement on 7/9, we could
promote their release as a separate event ...

3)  Release of Drug Court Grants.  In mid-July, DOJ's National Institute
of Justice (NIJ) will be ready to release its DUF/ADAM '(Drug Use
Forecasting/Arrestee Drug Abuse Monitoring) data. While we do not yet
know the'details of the final data, they will certainly continue to show
that a majority of arrestees in our major cities continue to test positive
for a variety of drugs -- and that more resources are needed to test,
treat and sanction these offenders. Against this backdrop, the President
could release $27 million in drug court grants for 150 localities to
implement or enhance specialized drug courts.


