 RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (NOTES MAIL)

 CREATOR: Thomas L. Freedman ( CN=Thomas L. Freedman/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

 CREATION DATE/TIME:25-JUN-1998 10:11:45.00

 SUBJECT:   Clinton wants tough   hate~crime   law

 TO: Elena KaganCN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 CC: Mary L. Smith ( CN=Mary L. Smith/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TEXT:
 FYI.
 ---------------------- Forwarded by Thomas L. Freedman/OPD/EOP on 06/25/98
 10:10 AM ---------------------------


 Richard Socarides      06/25/98 10:05:32 AM

 Record Type:       Record

 To:      See the distribution list at the bottom of this message
 cc:
 Subject:         Clinton wants tough hate-crime law


 ---------------------- Forwarded by Richard Socarides/WHO/EOP on 06/25/98
 10:07 AM ---------------------------



         Doug.Case @ sdsu.edu
         06/24/98 09:36:00 PM
 Record Type: Record

 To: Stuart D. Rosenstein, Richard Socarides
 cc:
 Subject: Clinton wants tough hate-crime law

 Associated Press
 June 24, 1998

 Clinton Wants Tough Hate-Crime Law

  By SONYA ROSS

 WASHINGTON (AP) - Citing the dragging death of a black Texas man, President
 Clinton urged Congress to pass a bill that would make it easier for federal
 prosecution of hate crimes.

 Before leaving for China, Clinton sent a letter to House and Senate leaders


of both parties Wednesday urging that they pass the Hate Crimes Prevention
Act, which would remove certain jurisdictional restrictions that keep
Justice Department prosecutors from pursuing hate crimes.

For example, federal prosecutors now can pursue a hate crime case only if
it occurs on federal property or while the victim was performing a
federally protected act, such as voting.

The legislation also would make hate crimes based on gender, disability or
sexual orientation federal offenses and authorize additional funds for hate
crime prevention and additional law enforcers to help with state and local
hate crime investigations. Current rules specify that federal hate crimes
cover only incidents based on race, color, religion or national origin.

Congress did not act on the legislation after it was introduced last year.
Clinton said the attack on James Byrd Jr., dragged to his death in Jasper,
Texas, by three young white men driving a truck and other similar incidents
argue that lawmakers must act this time.

" I know you were as troubled as I was by the vicious murder in Jasper,
Texas, just two weeks ago, " Clinton wrote. "This shocking event focused
America's attention on the pr.oblem of hate crimes.

"Whether it is a gay American murdered as he walks home from work, or a
Jewish American whose synagogue is desecrated by swastikas, such acts are
not only examples of bias and bigotry. They are crimes, " Clinton said.
"That is why I believe now is the time for us to take strong and decisive
action. I I

The House unanimously adopted a resolution to send its "heartfelt
condolences"  to Byrd's family. Members of the Congressional Black Caucus
have urged that the three men charged with killing him be prosecuted under
the federal hate crimes law, and the FBI and U.S. attorney's office were
working with local authorities to determine whether state or federal
prosecution was appropriate.

Using figures from local law enforcement agencies, the FBI reported 8,759
hate crimes in 1996. Of those, 5,396 were based on race, 1,401 on religion,
1,016 on sexual orientation, 940 on ethnic background and six for multiple
reasons.

************************************************************************
This message has been distributed as a free, nonprofit informational
service, to those who have expressed a prior interest in receiving this
information for non-profit research and educational purposes only.    Please
do not publish, or post in a public place on the Internet, copyrighted
material without permission and attribution.   (Note: Press releases are
fine to reprint. Don't reprint wire stories, such as Associated Press
stories, in their entirety unless you subscribe to that wire service.)
Forwarding of this material should not necessarily be construed as an
endorsement of the content.  In fact, sometimes messages from anti-gay
organizations are forwarded as "opposition research."


 Message Sent
 TO:~ __ ______ __ _______________________________________________
        ~       ~     ~


 Maria Echaveste/WHO/EOP
 Marjorie Tarmey/WHO/EOP
 Tracey E. Thornton/WHO/EOP
 Thomas L. Freedman/OPD/EOP
 Mary L. Smith/OPD/EOP


 ==================== ATTACHMENT   1 ====================
 ATT CREATION TIME/DATE:   0 00:00:00.00

 TEXT:
 RFC-822-headers:
 Received: from conversion.pmdf.eop.gov by PMDF.EOP.GOV (PMDF V5.1-9 #29131)
  id <01IYMM4GBQ8WOOJ8QC@PMDF.EOP.GOV>; Wed, 24 Jun 1998 20:38:27 EDT
 Received: from Storm.EOP.GOV by PMDF.EOP.GOV (PMDF V5.1-9 #29131)
  with ESMTP id <01IYMM4AKCYOOOKS1C@PMDF.EOP.GOV>; Wed,
  24 Jun 1998 20:38:19 -0400 (EDT)
 Received: from mail.sdsu.edu ([130.191.25.1])
  by STORM.EOP.GOV (PMDF V5.1-10 #29131)
  with ESMTP id <01IYMM3LXCHW0028ZM@STORM.EOP.GOV>; Wed,
  24 Jun 1998 20:37:46 -0400 (EDT)
 Received: from [130.191.242.121] ([130.191.242.121])
  by mail.sdsu.edu (8.8.7/8.8.7) with ESMTP id RAA04260; Wed,
  24 Jun 1998 17:36:51 -0700 (PDT)
 X-Sender: dcase@mail.sdsu.edu
 ================== END ATTACHMENT   1 ==================


