 RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

 CREATOR: Kate P. Donovan ( CN=Kate P. Donovan/OU=OMB/O=EOP [ OMB 1 )

 CREATION DATE/TIME:13-JUL-1998 20:40:25.00

 SUBJECT:   Labor/HHS Appropriations Letter - Need clearance

 TO: Maria Echaveste ( CN=Maria Echaveste/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ:UNKNOWN

 TO: Jeffrey M. Smith ( CN=Jeffrey M. Smith/OU=OSTP/O=EOP@EOP [ OSTP 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Wesley P. Warren ( CN=Wesley P. Warren/OU=CEQ/O=EOP@EOP [ CEQ 1 )
 READ:UNKNOWN

 TO: Lisa M. Kountoupes ( CN=Lisa M. Kountoupes/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: William P. Marshall ( CN=william P. Marshall/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Martha Foley ( CN=Martha Foley/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Sally Katzen ( CN=Sally Katzen/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: John Podesta ( CN=John Podesta/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ:UNKNOWN

 TO: Daniel N. Mendelson ( CN=Daniel N. Mendelson/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
 READ:UNKNOWN

 TO: Todd Stern ( CN=Todd Stern/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Kerri A. JoneS   ( CN=Kerri A. Jones/OU=OSTP/O=EOP@EOP [ OSTP 1 )
 READ:UNKNOWN

 TO: Kathleen A. McGinty ( CN=Kathleen A. McGinty/OU=CEQ/O=EOP@EOP [ CEQ 1 )
 READ:UNKNOWN

 TO: Joshua Gotbaum ( CN=Joshua Gotbaum/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Ron Klain ( CN=Ron Klain/O=OVP@OVP      [ UNKNOWN 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP      [ OPD 1 )
 READ:UNKNOWN

 TO: Gene B. Sperling ( CN=Gene B. Sperling/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
 READ:UNKNOWN

 TO: Rahm I. Emanuel ( CN=Rahm I. Emanuel/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 CC: Gina C. Mooers   ( CN=Gina C. Mooers/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )


 READ:UNKNOWN

 CC: Adrienne C. Erbach ( CN=Adrienne C. Erbach/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB I )
 READ:UNKNOWN

 CC: Peter A. Weissman ( CN=Peter A. Weissman/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD I         )
 READ:UNKNOWN

 CC: Judy Jablow ( CN=Judy Jablow/OU=CEQ/O=EOP@EOP [ CEQ I )
 READ:UNKNOWN

 CC: Charles R. Marr ( CN=Charles R. Marr/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD I )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 CC: Lisa Zweig ( CN=Lisa Zweig/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB I   )
 READ:UNKNOWN

 CC: Charles Konigsberg ( CN=Charles Konigsberg/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB I )
 READ:UNKNOWN

 cc: Shannon Mason ( CN=Shannon Mason/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD I )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 cc: Michelle Crisci ( CN=Michelle Crisci/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO I     )
 READ:UNKNOWN

 CC: Jessica L. Gibson ( CN=Jessica L. Gibson/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO I )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 CC: Victoria A. Wachino ( cN=Victoria A. Wachino/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB I )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 CC: Robert L. Nabors ( CN=Robert L. Nabors/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB I       )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 CC: Paul J. Weinstein Jr.   ( CN=Paul J. Weinstein Jr./OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD I )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 CC: E~il E. Parker ( CN=Emil E. Parker/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD I )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 CC: Jill M. Blickstein ( CN=Jill M. Blickstein/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB I )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 CC: Elizabeth Gore ( CN=Elizabeth Gore/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB I )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 CC: Jonathan H. Adashek ( CN=Jonathan H. Adashek/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO I )
 READ: UNKNOWN

 CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO I   )
 READ:UNKNOWN

 CC: Melissa G. Green ( CN=Melissa G. Green/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD I       )
 READ:UNKNOWN

 CC: Kevin S. Moran ( CN=Kevin S. Moran/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO I   )
 READ:UNKNOWN

 TEXT:


 Please review the House L/HHS/Ed letter.  Markup is tomorrow, Tuesday, at
 Ipm; therefore, we need your comments by lOam. Thank you.

 The Honorable Bob Livingston
 Chairman
 Committee on Appropriations
 U.S. House of Representatives
 Washington, D.C.  20515

 Dear Mr. Chairman:

        The purpose of this letter is to provide the AdministrationD,s
views on the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related
Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 1999, as reported by the House
Subcommittee. As the Committee develops its version of the bill, your
consideration of the AdministrationD,s views would be appreciated.

         [On June 23, 199B, the President stated that he was D&deeply disappointed
 with the Subcommittee bill.DB Due to the very serious funding and
 language issues present in the Subcommittee bill, discussed below, the
 President would veto the bill in its current form.]

         The only way to achieve the appropriate investment level is to
 offset discretionary spending by using savings in other areas.   The
 PresidentD,s FY 1999 Budget proposes levels of discretionary spending for
 FY 1999 that conform to the Bipartisan Budget Agreement by making savings
 through user fees and certain mandatory programs to help finance this
 spending.  In the recently enacted Transportation Equity Act, Congress --
 on a broad, bipartisan basis -- took similar action in approving funding
 for surface transportation programs paid for with mandatory offsets. We
 want to work with the Congress on mutually-agreeable mandatory and other
 offsets that could be used to increase funding for high-priority
 discretionary programs, including those funded by this bill.   In addition,
 we hope that the Committee will reduce funding for lower priority
 discretionary programs, and redirect funding to programs of higher
 priority.

 Department of Education

          The Subcommittee bill cuts $2 billion from the PresidentD,s
 overall request for education program funding.   As a result, the bill does
 not adequately support the Nation's efforts to raise student achievement,
 make schools safe, and improve the capabilities of teachers.   High
 priority programs inadequately funded and objectionable language issues
 include:

   Goals 2000. Funding for Goals 2000 is cut $255 million below the
 President's request, which would reverse momentum in alISO States to
 raise academic standards and deny 6,000 schools serving over three million
 students the funds needed to implement innovative education reforms.

 Title I (Education for the Disadvantaged) Grants to Local Educational
Agencies.  The Subcommittee bill cuts $392 million from the request, which
would leave nearly 520,000 students in high-poverty communities without
the extra help they need to master the basics and develop the capability
to reach high academic standards.

  Eisenhower Professional Development. The SubcommitteeD,s $50 million
 reduction would leave over 100,000 teachers without the training they need
 to help them teach to rigorous academic standards.



  America Reads. America Reads is denied the $210 million provided in last
 year's Bipartisan Budget Agreement for children's literacy, which would
 prevent thousands of young children from receiving the extra help they
 need to learn to read well and independently by the end of the third grade.

  Safe and Drug-Free Schools and Communities.  The SubcommitteeO,s $50
 million reduction would deny funding for School Coordinators in nearly
 one-half of the Nation's middle schools needed to implement effective drug
 and violence prevention programs.

  After School programs (21st Century Community Learning Centers). A $140
 million cut to this program, part of the PresidentO,s child care
 initiative, would result in 3,000 fewer centers and no services to nearly
 400,000 children.

  Education Opportunity Zones. The Subcommittee bill does not provide the
 requested $200 million, which would deny high-poverty urban and rural
 districts the extra assistance they need to implement effective reforms
 with tough accountability for performance.

  Technology in Education.  The SubcommitteeO,s $137 million reduction from
 the request would make it increasingly difficult for States to meet school
 children's education technology needs, especially in training teachers to
 integrate educational technology into their curriculum effectively.

  School-to-Work. School-to-Work is cut by a total of $100 million
 (between the Departments of Education and Labor) below the President's
 $250 million request, which would seriously hamper all States' efforts to
 help young people of all backgrounds move from high school to careers or
 postsecondary training and education.

  Work-Study.  Roughly 57,000 needy students would be denied the
 opportunity to work to finance their college education because of the
 SubcommitteeO,s $50 million reduction.

  Higher Education Initiatives. No funds are provided for three
 Presidential initiatives for which the President sought $237 million: High
 Hopes, to help prepare students at high poverty middle schools for
 college; Learning Anytime Anywhere Partnership grants for pilot projects
 using distance learning technology; and teacher recruitment and
 preparation programs. In addition to inadequate funding for priority
 education programs, the Administration is concerned with several language
 provisions of the Subcommittee bill, that would severely restrict the
 AdministrationO,s ability to continue the development of programs designed
 to raise academic standards.

  National Tests. The Administration strongly objects to the language
 limitation and $15 million funding cut that would bring a halt to the
 President's efforts to help States and parents raise academic standards
 through a voluntary national test.  The Subcommittee billO,s language
 would prohibit the development, implementation, and administration of the
 tests unless explicitly authorized.  The language prohibition should be
 deleted and the funding restored.

  Unfocused Block Grants.  The Administration strongly objects to language
 that would, in effect, turn the Goals 2000 and the Eisenhower Professional
 Development programs into block grants by allowing those funds to be used
 under the broad Title VI block grant authority.  Title VI has no
 performance or accountability standards.  The language should be deleted


 so that these Federal funds can address national needs and continue to be
 guided by strong accountability measures.

  Special Education (Individuals with Disabilities Education Act -- IDEA).
 The bill contains two objectionable IDEA riders.   One would undermine the
 due process protections and parental rights for disabled students who are
 regarded as violent.  The other would, in effect, allow States to
 discontinue special education services for youth ages 18-21 in adult
 prisons, violating the right of all disabled, incarcerated students in
 that age group to receive special education services and prohibiting the
 Department of Education from using its enforcement mechanisms.  Both
 provisions would unnecessarily re-open IDEA before last year's bipartisan
 reauthorization has had a chance to be implemented and fairly assessed.
 Both provisions should be stricken.

  Bilingual Education. While we agree with the committee on the need for
 more reforms to Bilingual Education, we are opposed to any provision that
 would set an absolute limit on student participation in bilingual
 education or
 alternative programs.   Such a step would deny help to students who need it
 and
 violate the civil rights of Limited English Proficient students to an
 equal
 education.   Because of individual differences, students will vary in how
 long it
 takes to develop English proficiency. We are also opposed to provisions
 that
 would establish a two year goal for becoming proficient in English, since
 research has shown that this timetable is unrealistically short.   There
 are several
 promising provisions in this proposed bill, such as the removal of the 25
 percent cap to allow more local flexibility and the funding priority for
 only
 successful programs.

 Department of Labor

         Summer Jobs Program. The Administration strongly opposes the
 SubcommitteeD,s elimination of the $871 million Summer Jobs program, which
 could finance 530,000 summer jobs for economically disadvantaged youth.
 The unemployment rate for teens continues to far exceed the overall
 unemployment rate.  The Summer Jobs program plays a vital role in
 supporting employment among these teens, especially among African-American
 youths -- approximately 25 percent of summer jobs held by African-American
 14-15 year olds come through this program -- and serves as a valuable
 introduction to the world of work.  We urge the committee to restore the
 full request for this program.

         PresidentD,s Youth Opportunity Area Initiative.  The Subcommittee
 provides no funding for the PresidentD,s Youth Opportunity Area initiative
 and rescinds the $250 million appropriated last year for this program.
 This program would address the problem of pervasive joblessness in
 high-poverty neighborhoods by making large investments in these areas to
 effect community-wide change and help 50,000 out-of-school youth.  We
 strongly oppose elimination
 of this program, which is an essential component of the AdministrationD,s
 Empowerment Zones/Enterprise Communities initiative.  We urge the
 Committee to provide full funding as requested.

         The Administration has strong concerns with the inadequate funding


 levels provided for the following Labor programs:

   Adult Job Training. The Subcommittee has provided none of the requested
 increases for the Dislocated Worker ($100 million) and low-income adult
  ($45 million) job training programs. Freezing these programs would mean
 that some 67,000 fewer workers in need of assistance would be helped.

  Worker Protection.  The Subcommittee has cut nearly in half the requested
 increase for programs that protect our workers on the job.  For example,
 the Subcommittee mark for Occupational Safety and Health Administration
 redirects resources to State consultation and is, effectively, 12-percent
 below the requested level for Federal enforcement, while funding for the
 Mine Safety and Health Administration is frozen at the 1998 level. We
 urge the Committee to restore financing for such critical workplace
 protection programs.

  Unemployment Insurance.  The House Subcommittee mark does not fund the
 $90 million requested for the Unemployment Insurance (UI) integrity
 initiative. This initiative was authorized in the Balanced Budget Act of
 1997 and would, over five years, achieve $763 million in mandatory savings
 assumed in the Bipartisan Budget Agreement. Failure to fund this
 initiative would mean a continuation of errors in benefit payments and UI
 taxes.

  Child Labor. The $3 million increase to combat international child labor
 abuses is inadequate in light of ~he magnitude of the problem, and
 provides only a small fraction of the $27 million requested.

         The Subcommittee bill contains several objectionable language
 riders addressing regulatory issues in the Department of Labor.   These
 include language imposing new, unnecessary, and burdensome review
 procedures before the Department can issue Black Lung regulations, a new
 requirement for OSHA to conduct duplicative peer review panels for its new
 regulations, and a continuation of the rider that prohibits MSHA from
 enforcing training requirements at certain mines, which have a growing
 numbers of deaths. These riders would make it more difficult for the
 Department of Labor to carry out its programs and should be dropped.

         The Administration objects to the continuation of last year's
 rider that prohibits the use of funds for supervising the Teamster's
 election, despite a court order requiring the Federal Government to pay
 for a supervised election.

 Department of Health and Human Services

         The Administration appreciates the SubcommitteeD,s efforts to
 provide much needed funding for important programs crucial to the healthy
 lives of all Americans. Unfortunately, the Subcommittee has not provided
 adequate funding for several important programs of the Department of
 Health and Human Services (HHS).  In addition, the Subcommittee bill
 contains several language provisions that are troubling to the
 Administration.

         Abortion.  The Administration urges the Committee to strike sections 508
 and 509 of the Subcommittee bill, which would prohibit the use of funds
 for abortion.  The President believes that abortion should be safe, legal,
 and rare. These provisions would continue to limit the range of
 conditions under which a woman's health would permit access to abortion
 services. Furthermore, section 509 requires a physician to make a legal
 determination that these conditions have been met.  The Administration


proposes to work with the Congress to address the issue of abortion
funding.

        Head Start.  The Subcommittee funds Head Start at $4.5 billion, $160
million below the President's request -- denying slots to up to 25,000
low-income children in FY 1999 and undermining efforts to serve one
million children by the year 2002. Head Start has a track record of
success in readying disadvantaged children for school, supporting working
families by helping parents to get involved in their children's lives and
providing services to the entire family.  We urge the Committee to restore
Head Start funding to the President's requested level.

         Child Care. The Administration urges the Committee to provide the
additional $174 million requested for a child care initiative that will
improve the availability of affordable, quality child care for working
parents. This initiative would provide States with resources to enhance
child care health and safety standards enforcement, give child care
workers scholarships to improve their skills, and increase our commitment
to understand better and evaluate how our NationD,s child care system is
working.  Likewise, we ask that the Committee restore funds to the
President's requested level for a $5 million program designed to assist
States in developing support systems for families of children with
disabilities.

         [Organ Donation. The Administration strongly opposes two provisions of
the Subcommittee bill which would suspend two HHS rules pertaining to
organ donation:  a HCFA rule that seeks to expand the number of organs
available for donation through more vigorous procurement efforts; and, a
Health Resources and Services Administration rule that would require
allocation of organs for transplant on the basis of medical need (rather
than locality) and would ensure that organs are allocated to the sickest
candidates first. (Dan Mendelson is checking wi HHS on this language)]

        Other troublesome HHS-related funding and language issues, with
which the Administration has serious concerns, include the following:

 National Household Survey on Drug Abuse.  The Subcommittee mark
eliminates funding for data collection activities of the Substance Abuse
and Mental Health Services Administration, including the National
Household Survey on Drug Abuse, which is our single best source of
information on youth drug use and youth smoking and is important for
evaluating the impact of substance abuse prevention, treatment, and
enforcement efforts.

 Needle Exchange. The Subcommittee includes a total ban on the use of
funds appropriated in this Act for needle exchange programs rather than
making the use of funds for such programs conditional upon the
certification of the Secretary of Health and Human Services.

 Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA).  Although the Subcommittee
fully funded the President's program level request for HCFA Program
Management (with the exception of the Medicare+Choice information
campaign), no action was taken on the
$265 million in new discretionary HCFA user fees.  We urge the Committee
to enact the PresidentD,s requested user fees to finance HeFA activities
and to ensure that sufficient resources remain available for education and
other priorities.

 Bio-Terrorism. The Administration urges the House to provide the full
$111 million requested to improve HHSD, ability to respond to attacks of


biological and chemical terrorism.

 Health Disparities. The Subcommittee has failed to include $30 million
requested for demonstration projects to address racial and ethnic health
disparities in infant mortality, cancer, diabetes, heart disease and
stroke, HIV/AIDS, and immunizations.

 Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). The Subcommittee
would eliminate funding for the Low Income Heating Assistance Program.
This would force over five million of our NationD,s most vulnerable
households to choose between heating their homes or feeding their
families.  Over 36 percent of LIHEAP households have elderly residents, 32
percent have disabled residents, 27 percent have children under the
age of six, and 27 percent are the working poor who do not receive any
other public assistance. The Administration urges the committee to
restore funds to the President's requested level.

 Foster Care and Adoption Assistance. The Subcommittee bill fails to
provide the Administration's request for a $200 million contingency
reserve.  This language is critical to ensure grant awards should the
definite appropriations be insufficient for authorized eligible
expenditures in either Foster Care or Adoption Assistance. The Committee
should restore the requested level of $200 million, or approximately four
percent of total program costs.

 Office of AIDS Research.  The Subcommittee bill does not appropriate a
specific amount for AIDS research through a single appropriation for the
National Institutes of Health's (NIHD,s) Office of AID8 Research.  The
single appropriation would help NIH plan and target research funds
effectively, minimizing duplication and inefficiencies across the 21
institutes and centers that carry out HIV/AIDS research.

 Prevention Research.  The Subcommittee has provided only $10 million of
the $25 million requested for the Centers for Disease Control to expand
research in ways to prevent disease and reduce the need for medical care.

 General Departmental Management. A provision of the bill would require
that HHS' Office of the Secretary contract with National Academy of
Sciences (NAS) for an $890,000 study on repetitive tasks in the
workplace. This provision duplicates current NIH efforts with NAS in this
area.

social Security Administration

         The Subcommittee bill does not provide $19 million for
administrative expenses, contingent on the authorization of a user fee for
services provided by the Social Security Administration to attorneys who
represent claimants for benefits. These services include withholding
money from certain past due benefits and issuing payments to certain
claimant representatives.   The Administration continues to support
enactment of this user fee and appropriation of the anticipated
collections for administrative expenses.

        In addition, the Subcommittee bill does not provide $50 million
for administrative expenses, for the conduct of additional non-disability
Supplemental Security Income (S8I) redeterminations of eligibility.  These
resources and the resulting redeterminations are essential to ensuring the
integrity of the SSI program and reducing unnecessary benefit payments.
Failure to provide this funding will result in serious staffing
shortfalls.



Other Issues

 National Labor Relations Board (NLRB). The Subcommittee provides funding
for the NLRB at the FY 1997 level. This would result in a loss of over
100 staff, an increase in case backlogs, and could result in furloughs and
office closings. This reduction would cripple an agency key to protecting
workersD, rights on the job, and we urge the Committee to restore the NLRB
to the requested level.

Section 516 amends the National Labor Relations Act to require the NLRB to
adjust its dollar jurisdictional standards for inflation on October 1,
199B, and every five years thereafter. This change would deny workers in
some small businesses the protection afforded to others to organize .and
bargain collectively. This change to substantive law raising the
jurisdictional thresholds more than five-fold should not be done through
the appropriations process, but only after hearings and debate.

 Corporation for National and Community Service.   The Administration is
deeply concerned about the SubcommitteeO,s $27 million reduction to the
request for the Corporation for National and Community Service. This
reduction freezes the CorporationO,s Senior Service program at the FY 1998
level and cuts VISTA $5 million below FY 199B. These reductions would
deny more than 500 VISTA members the opportunity to serve in low-income
communities Nation-wide and would reduce the number of seniors serving
their communities by 15,000. The Administration urges the Committee to
fully fund the Corporation at the $279 million level proposed in the FY
1999 budget.

 Corporation for Public Broadcasting.   The Administration strongly objects
to the lack of funding provided for the President's initiative to assist
public broadcasters convert to digital technology.   The transition to
digital technology promises to create tremendous opportunities for expande
d and enhanced educational and public service programming while promoting
innovative technology applications.   Providing the Corporation with
funding in FY 1999 will allow public broadcasting to convert to digital
technology on a similar schedule as commercial stations. This will
facilitate fundraising efforts and allow public broadcasters to
participate in the establishment of digital standards.


 Railroad Retirement Board (RRB). The Subcommittee bill does not include
language to provide the RRB with authority to offer voluntary separation
incentive payments (or O&buyouts08) through the end of calendar year
1998.  RRBO,s experience has shown that reducing employment through buyo
uts is much less disruptive to agency operations than conducting a
reduction-in-force.  The Administration urges the Committee to provide
this buyout authority.

The Subcommittee bill includes language prohibiting the RRB Inspector
General from using funds for any audit, investigation, or review of the
Medicare program.  The Administration believes that this language should
be dropped.  RRB has statutory authority to administer a separate contract
for RRB, Part B Medicare claims. As long as RRB has authority to
negotiate and administer a separate Medicare contract, the RRB Inspector
General ought not to be prohibited from using funds to review, audit, or
investigate activity related to that contract.

        We look forward to working with the Committee to address our
mutual concerns.




                                                          Sincerely,



                                                          Jacob. J. Lew
                                                          Acting Director




  Identical Letter Sent to The Honorable Bob Livingston,
  The Honorable David R. Obey, and The Honorable John E. Porter


