      RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

      CREATOR: Kate P. Donovan ( CN=Kate P. Donovan/OU=OMB/O=EOP [ OMB 1 )

      CREATION DATE/TIME: 14-JUL-1998 17:14:36.00

      SUBJECT:   URGENT: child Custody Protection Act SAP

     TO: Charles Konigsberg ( CN=Charles Konigsberg/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
     READ:UNKNOWN

     TO: Sylvia M. Mathews ( CN=Sylvia M. Mathews/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Melissa G. Green ( CN=Melissa G. Green/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Sally Katzen ( CN=Sally Katzen/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Jessica L. Gibson ( CN=Jessica L. Gibson/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Peter G. Jacoby ( CN=Peter G. Jacoby/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Charles F. Ruff    ( CN=Charles F. Ruff/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
     READ:UNKNOWN

     TO: Maria Echaveste ( CN=Maria Echaveste/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 ).
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Michelle Crisci    ( CN=Michelle Crisci/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Elizabeth Gore    ( CN=Elizabeth Gore/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP   [ OMB 1 )
     READ: UNKNOwN

     TO: Charles M. Brain ( CN=Charles M. Brain/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Joshua Gotbaum ( CN=Joshua Gotbaum/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP      [ OMB 1 )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Shannon Mason ( CN=Shannon Mason/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP    [ OPD 1 )
     READ:UNKNOWN

     TO: Daniel N. Mendelson ( CN=Daniel N. Mendelson/OU=OMS/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Tracey E. Thornton ( CN=Tracey E. Thornton/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
     READ:UNKNOWN

     TO: William P. Marshall    ( CN=William P. Marshall/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Kevin S. Moran ( CN=Kevin S. Moran/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP      [ WHO 1 )


READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Ann F. Lewis ( CN=Ann F. Lewis/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Rahm I. Emanuel ( CN=Rahm I. Emanuel/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Dario J. Gomez   ( CN=Dario J. Gomez/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Victoria A. Wachino ( CN=Victoria A. Wachino/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Adrienne C. Erbach ( CN=Adrienne C. Erbach/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Gina C. Mooers ( CN=Gina C. Mooers/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Robert L. Nabors   ( CN=Robert L. Nabors/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Jill M. Blickstein ( CN=Jill M. Blickstein/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB     1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Below is the draft SAP on H.R. 3682 - Child Custody Protection Act.  The
bill is scheduled for House floor action tomorrow (7/15); therefore,
please provide comments/clearance c.o.b. today.  position: Senior Advisors
veto recommendation. Thank you.

       July 14, 1998
       (House)

H.R. 3682 - Child Custody Protection Act
(Rep. Ros-Lehtinen (R) FL and 136 others)

The Administration strongly opposes enactment of H.R. 3682 in its current
form.  If a bill is presented to the President that fails to address the
concerns that are described below, the PresidentD,s senior advisers would
recommend that he veto it.

As stated in recent letters from White House Chief-of-Staff Erskine Bowles
to the House and Senate Committees on the Judiciary, the Administration
would support properly crafted legislation that would make it illegal to
transport minors across state lines for the purpose of avoiding parental
involvement requirements.  Unfortunately, H.R. 3682, as reported by the
House Committee on the Judiciary, fails to address a number of the
critical concerns raised by the Administration.  Specifically, the bill
must be amended to:

                Exclude close family members from criminal and civil
liability. Under the legislation, grandmothers, aunts, and minor and
adult siblings could face criminal prosecution for coming to the aid of a
relative in distress.


                Ensure that persons who only provide information,
counseling, referral, or medical services to the minor cannot be subject
to liability.

                Address constitutional and other legal infirmities that
the Department of Justice has identified in particular provisions of the
legislation.  These concerns were transmitted to the House committee on
the Judiciary on June 24, 1998.

The Administration is concerned that H.R. 3682 raises important federalism
issues, including the rights of States to regulate matters within their
own boundaries. The Administration believes, however, that legislation
that addresses the concerns noted above, and that is carefully targeted at
punishing non-relatives who transport minors across State lines for the
purpose of avoiding parental involvement requirements, would mitigate the
federalism concerns.

Pay-As-You-Go Scoring

H.R. 3682 could affect both direct spending and receipts; therefore, it is
subject to the pay-as-you-go requirement of the Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act of 1990. OMBD,s preliminary scoring estimate of this
bill is zero.

* * * * * * * * * *

(Do Not Distribute Outside Executive Office of the President)

This Statement of Administration Policy was developed by the Legislative
Reference Division (Pellicci) in consultation with Associate Director
Mendelson, HD (Clendenin/Miller), TCJS (Haun), HR (Smalligan), and the
White House Offices of Legislative Affairs (Jacoby), the General Counsel
(Marshall), and Intergovernmental Affairs (Ibarra).  The Department of
Justice (Greg Jones) concurs in the proposed position. The Departments of
the Interior (Schwartz) and Health and Human Services (Wallace) have no
comments.

OMB/LA Clearance: ______________________________________________________________

The proposed position is consistent with that taken in letters from
Chief-of-Staff Bowles to the House and Senate Committees on the JUdiciary
on June 17th and July 18th, respectively.  It is also consistent with the
views taken by the Justice Department in letters to the two committees
transmitted on June 24th and July 8th, respectively.

H.R. 3682 was ordered reported by the House Committee on the Judiciary by
a vote of 17-10, along party lines, on June 23, 1998.

Summary of H.R. 3682

As ordered reported, H.R. 3682 would make it illegal for anyone -- other
than the girlD,s parent or guardian -- to knowingly transport a minor
across a State line to obtain an abortion in cases in which the minor has
not satisfied her home StateD,s laws regarding "parental involvement"
(i.e., laws requiring parental consent or notification).  H.R. 3682 would
subject individuals violating the billD,s provisions to civil and criminal
penalties, including the possibility of imprisonment for up to one year.
The bill would allow an out-of-State abortion without parental
notification if the abortion was necessary to save the minorD,s life.



Currently, 22 States require parental consent for a minor to terminate her
pregnancy while 17 States have opted for the lesser requirement of
parental notification. Eleven States have no parental involvement
requirements.

Pay-As-You-Go Scoring

According to HD (Miller), H.R. 3682 could affect direct spending and
receipts; therefore, the bill is subject to the pay-as-you-go requirement
of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990. Individuals prosecuted
and convicted under H.R. 3682 could be subject to criminal fines.
Collections of such fines are governmental receipts, which are deposited
in the Crime Victims Fund and spent in the following year. OMB estimates
that the scoring estimate of this bill is zero.  CBO estimates that H.R.
3682 would not result in any significant cost.

LEGISLATIVE REFERENCE DIVISION DRAFT
07/14/98 - 4:30 p.m.


