     RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (NOTES MAIL)

     CREATOR: Kate P. Donovan ( CN=Kate P. Donovan/OU=OMB/O=EOP [ OMB I )

     CREATION DATE/TIME: 16-JUL-1998 11:59:12.00

     SUBJECT:   REVISED VA/HUD FLOOR SAP

     TO: Maria Echaveste ( CN=Maria Echaveste/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO I              )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Jeffrey M. Smith ( CN=Jeffrey M. Smith/OU=OSTP/O=EOP@EOP [ OSTP I              )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Wesley P. Warren ( CN=Wesley P. Warren/OU=CEQ/O=EOP@EOP [ CEQ I )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Lisa M. Kountoupes ( CN=Lisa M. Kountoupes/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO I )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: William P. Marshall    ( cN=William P. Marshall/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO I )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Martha Foley ( CN=Martha Foley/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO I        )
     READ:UNKNOWN

     TO: Sally Katzen ( CN=Sally Katzen/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD I        )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: John Podesta ( CN=John Podesta/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO I        )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Todd Stern ( CN=Todd Stern/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO I    )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Kerri A. Jones    ( CN=Kerri A. Jones/OU=OSTP/O=EOP@EOP [ OSTP I )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Kathleen A. McGinty ( CN=Kathleen A. McGinty/OU=CEQ/O=EOP@EOP [ CEQ I )
     READ:UNKNOWN

     TO: Joshua Gotbaum ( CN=Joshua Gotbaum/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB I            )
     READ:UNKNOWN

     TO: Ron Klain ( CN=Ron Klain/O=OVP@OVP [ UNKNOWN I    )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD I      )
     READ:UNKNOWN

     TO: Gene B. Sperling ( CN=Gene B. Sperling/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD I )
     READ: UNKNOWN
                                                                            /
     TO: Rahm I. Emanuel   ( CN=Rahm I. Emanuel/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO I )
     READ: UNKNOWN

     CC: Adrienne C. Erbach ( CN=Adrienne C. Erbach/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB I )
     READ:UNKNOWN

     CC: Peter A. Weissman ( CN=Peter A. Weissman/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD I              )


READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Judy Jablow ( CN=Judy Jablow/OU=CEQ/O=EOP@EOP [ CEQ 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Charles R. Marr ( CN=Charles R. Marr/OU=OPO/O=EOP@EOP [ OPO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Lisa Zweig ( CN=Lisa Zweig/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Charles Konigsberg ( CN=Charles Konigsberg/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Shannon Mason ( CN=Shannon Mason/OU=OPO/O=EOP@EOP [ OPO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Michelle Crisci ( CN=Michelle Crisci/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Jessica L. Gibson ( CN=Jessica L. Gibson/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Victoria A. Wachino ( CN=Victoria A. Wachino/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Robert L. Nabors   ( CN=Robert L. Nabors/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Paul J. weinstein Jr.   ( CN=Paul J. weinstein Jr./OU=OPO/O=EOP@EOP [ OPO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Emil E. Parker ( CN=Emil E. Parker/OU=OPO/O=EOP@EOP [ OPO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Jill M. Blickstein ( CN=Jill M. Blickstein/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Elizabeth Gore ( CN=Elizabeth Gore/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Jonathan H. Adashek ( CN=Jonathan H. Adashek/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Melissa G. Green ( CN=Melissa G. Green/OU=OPO/O=EOP@EOP [ OPO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Kevin S. Moran ( CN=Kevin S. Moran/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Below is the draft VA/HUD House Floor SAP assuming passage of the rule
which is pending on the House floor right now. The language is identical
to the House Rules SAP cleared & released yesterday except for the HUD
sections in bold text.  Please respond with comments/clearance by 1:30pm
(general debate begins after T/P action is completed).  Thanks.



H.R. 4194 DEPARTMENTS OF VETERANS AFFAIRS AND
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND INDEPENDENT AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS
BILL, FY 1999
(Sponsors: Livingston (R), Louisiana;            Lewis (R),
California)
        This Statement of Administration Policy provides the
AdrninistrationD,s views on H.R. 4194, the Departments of Veterans Affairs
and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations
Bill, FY 1999, as reported by the House Appropriations Committee. Your
consideration of the AdrninistrationD,s views would be appreciated.

        The Administration appreciates efforts by the Committee to
accommodate certain of the PresidentD,s priorities within the 302(b)
allocation. However, the allocation is simply insufficient to make the
necessary investments in programs funded by this bill.  As a result,
critical programs are not funded or are underfunded, in particular, key
Presidential priorities such as funding for National Service, Superfund,
and climate change.  Furthermore, the Administration is very concerned
that the Committee has included problematic language regarding the Kyoto
Protocol and other issues. Finally, the Administration understands that
an amendment will be offered to include unacceptable provisions now
contained in H.R. 2, such as those relaxing income targeting.  If the bill
were presented to the President without responding to these concerns, the
President's senior advisers would recommend that he veto the bill.

        The only way to achieve the appropriate investment level is to
offset discretionary spending by using savings in other areas.  The
President's FY 1999 Budget proposes levels of discretionary spending for
FY 1999 that conform to the Bipartisan Budget Agreement by making savings
in mandatory and other programs available to help finance this spending.
In the Transportation Equity Act, Congress -- on a broad, bipartisan basis
   took similar action in approving funding for surface transportation
programs paid for with mandatory offsets. We want to work with the
Congress on mutually agreeable mandatory and other offsets that could be
used to increase high-priority discretionary programs, including those
funded by this bill.

        Below is a discussion of our specific concerns with the Committee
bill. We look forward to working with the House to resolve these concerns
as the bill moves forward.

Corporation for National and Community Service

        The Administration strongly objects to the termination of the
Corporation for National and Community Service, one of the
Administration's top priorities. Eliminating funding for the Corporation
would deny more than 49,000 Americans the opportunity to serve as
AmeriCorps members in projects such as America Reads, the Administration's
effort to raise student literacy through the use of tutors to supplement
the school day activities.   In addition, over one million students of all
ages would forego the chance to participate in service learning activities
in their schools and neighborhoods.   The funding level in the Committee
bill for the Corporation for National and Community Service is
unacceptable.

Environmental Protection Agency

        The Administration has several major concerns with the
CommitteeD,s mark for the Environmental Protection Agency.  In particular,


the Administration strongly objects to the $593 million, or 28-percent,
reduction to the PresidentD,s request for Superfund, which would delay
cleanups at sites nationwide and needlessly jeopardize public health.   In
addition, the Administration opposes the $16 million, or 18-percent,
reduction to the request for brownfields funding as well as restrictive
bill language that would hamper achievement of brownfield cleanups by
preventing their use for removals, cleanups, and revolving loan funds.
The Administration urges the House to restore Superfund to the requested
level and to delete the restrictive brownfields language.

        The Administration strongly opposes the CommitteeD,s $106 million
reduction in EPA funding for the Climate Change Technology Initiative.
This high-priority program should be funded fully to cut energy usage,
save consumers money, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We will work
with the Congress to restore requested funding as the bill moves forward.

        The Administration strongly opposes bill and report language
relating to the Kyoto Protocol that applies to the EPA and the Council on
Environmental Quality. While the Administration could not and would not
implement the Protocol until it is ratified, the bill language could be
interpreted broadly to prevent activities that limit greenhouse gases --
for example, through enhancing energy efficiency -- but that are
authorized under current law. The report language also inappropriately
purports to prevent the Executive Branch from engaging in educational and
outreach activities related to treaty negotiations and other aspects of
climate change. The Administration opposes this and other riders because
they inappropriately use the legislative process by denying the public and
Members of Congress the opportunity to examine and debate these proposals
openly.

        The Administration appreciates the CommitteeD,s providing full
funding for the PresidentD,s Clean Water Action Plan, which is designed to
prevent pollution run-off and protect public health.  The Administration
urges the Committee to provide the full $50 million request to help
improve water quality in Boston Harbor and prevent beach closings.

        The Administration is concerned with the large number of
unrequested, earmarked projects in the Committee mark for EPA,
particularly when the Committee has reduced several other high-priority
Administration initiatives, including right-to-know programs, Montreal
Protocol, GLOBE, and Mexican border wastewater treatment funding.

Department of Housing and Urban Development

        The Administration understands that an amendment will be offered
to add H.R. 2, the Public Housing Reform and Responsibility Act of 1997,
to the bill. H.R. 2 includes unacceptable provisions.   For example, by
changing the income targeting at admission for public and Section 8
assisted housing, H.R. 2 would shift subsidies from the poorest families,
many of whom are working, to families with incomes sufficient to have
greater housing choices.   Such provisions would increase homelessness and
hardship at a time when record numbers of Americans cannot afford even
basic housing.  The Administration supports reasonable measures to
encourage a range of incomes in public housing and thereby reduce
concentrations of poverty.  The Administration can find no rationale,
however, for relaxing the income targeting of Section 8 subsidies that can
be used throughout a community. We must not allow those with the most
desperate housing needs to be left out in the name of housing reform.

       The Administration is concerned about the funding levels provided


for key programs of the Department'of Housing and Urban Development,
particularly for welfare-to-work housing vouchers and other programs, such
as the Community Empowerment Fund, that would expand job opportunities.

        The Administration appreciates the Committee's decision to fund
17,700 incremental "Welfare-to-Work" housing vouchers.  The Administration
would strongly support an amendment to increase the number of
welfare-to-work housing vouchers to help more families get or keep a job.
Indeed, with millions of families needing to make the transition from
welfare to work, and in light of recent studies that show historically
high unmet housing needs among very low-income Americans, the
Administration believes it is critical for the Congress to fund the entire
50,000 welfare-to-work housing vouchers provided for in the President's
request. Welfare-to-work housing vouchers will support implementation of
welfare reform by assisting those welfare recipients who need housing
assistance to get or keep a job.

        The Administration also encourages the Congress to fund fully the
President's request for $400 million for an Economic Development
Initiative Community Empowerment Fund to generate jobs in distressed
communities. The Committee has cut the request by $350 million, providing
only $50 million, as a set-aside within the existing CDBG program.

        The Administration appreciates the Committee's decisions to fund a
number of programs at the levels requested, including the Partnership for
Advancing Technologies in Housing (PATH) initiative, and to renew all
expiring Section 8 contracts.   The Administration is encouraged that the
Committee has provided funding for half the President's request for
Regional Opportunity Counseling, a voluntary effort to expand the housing
and employment opportunities available to low-income families.   We urge
full funding of the President's request for this program. We are also
pleased by the CommitteeD,s decision to provide $80 million for the Office
of Lead Hazard Control, to reduce the risk of childhood lead poisoning and
other health hazards.   The Administration encourages the Congress to fund
fully a number of other areas -- Homeless Assistance, Brownfields, and
Regional Connections--and to end the ninety-day delay in reissuing of
Section 8 certificates/vouchers on turnover.

        The Administration is very concerned that the Subcommittee has not
included language extending the repeal of one-for-one replacement for
public housing. Without this language, the bipartisan goal of demolishing
100,000 of the worst public housing units by FY 2003 may not be achieved.

        The Administration is pleased with the Committee's decision to
support an audit-based enforcement initiative for the Fair Housing
Initiatives program. We urge the Congress to fund fully this critical
fair housing initiative to reduce the level of housing discrimination.

        The Administration urges the Congress to adopt the
Administration's proposal to reform HUD's single-family property
disposition program, which would produce substantial savings by improving
the efficiency of FHAD,s property disposition processes and would permit
the Committee to provide additional resources to critical Committee
programs.  Finally, the Administration understands that there will be an
effort to eliminate the provisions in the bill that increase the FHA loan
limit. The Administration strongly opposes such an effort.   The
Administration urges the Congress instead to provide greater homeownership
opportunities by increasing the FHA loan limit to the "conforming" limit.

Council on Environmental Quality



         The Administration appreciates the modest increase over the FY
1998 level provided for the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ).
However, we strongly believe that in order to allow CEQ to carry out its
environmental mission and reinvention efforts, the full requested level
should be provided, and language prohibiting use of detailees should be
deleted.

Community Development Financial Institutions Fund

        The Administration strongly urges the Committee to fund the
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund at the requested level.
The CommitteeO,s decision to reduce the request by $45 million would
severely reduce the FundO,s ability to leverage investments, loans, and
financial services in the countryO,s most distressed communities.

National Aeronautics and Space Administration

        The Administration is concerned with the CommitteeO,s reductions
to the requests for the International Space Station, Space Shuttle, and
Earth Science programs.  Full funding in FY 1999 for Space Station is
critical as the United States and our International Partners are in a peak
period of development and integration, and proceeding toward First Element
Launch later this year.  Further, the Administration is particularly
concerned about bill language prohibiting the use of funds for the Triana
project. Triana offers a unique opportunity to educate and engage
students in all phases of the mission.   Its observations could potentially
be used in meteorology and environmental monitoring, as well as for
commercial purposes.  The Administration will work with the Congress to
enable restoration of funding for these priority programs as the bill
proceeds.  The Administration is also concerned over the large number of
unrequested site-specific earmarks, which would have the effect of
ci~cumventing the competitive, peer review process and are paid for, in
part, with serious reductions to priority programs.

Federal Emergency Management Agency

        The Administration appreciates the level of funding provided by
the Committee for the Federal Emergency Management Agency.  However, we
believe that the $20 million reduction to the President's request for
pre-disaster mitigation grants is shortsighted. These grants would help
reduce the cost of future disasters by leveraging local and private-sector
support for enhanced mitigation efforts at the State and community level.
We urge the Committee to fund fully the President's request for this
important initiative.  In addition, we urge the Committee to approve our
recent request for funding to help States and communities prepare for
potential terrorist incidents involving chemical and/or biological weapons.

National Science Foundation

        Given the budget constraints facing the Committee, the
Administration appreciates the effort to provide a $268 million increase
over the FY 1998 level for the'National Science Foundation (NSF).
Nevertheless, the Administration is concerned with the reduction to the
request for education and human resources and the elimination of funds for
the proposed Polar Cap Observatory and NSF funds for the GLOBE program.
The Administration is firmly committed to NSF's research and education
activities, which not only promote scientific advancement but also
contribute to economic development.  We strongly urge the Congress to
provide the full increase requested for NSF for its research, equipment,


and education activities.

 Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation

        The Administration is pleased by the Committee's decision to
provide the President's full request for the Neighborhood Reinvestment
Corporation (NRC). The 'NRC has a proven, successful record of leveraging
private sector resources to promote homeownership and helping strengthen
AmericaD,s communities. This funding would provide an additional $25
million for a homeownership initiative that seeks to create 10,000 new
homeowners through FY 2000.

Consumer Product Safety Commission

        The Administration opposes bill language that would block the
Consumer Product Safety Commission's ability to promulgate rules to reduce
the flammability of upholstered furniture. This language intrudes upon
CPSC's ability, as well the ability of other agencies, to carry out their
responsibilities.  Furthermore, these efforts to block the development of
a new safety standard represent a threat to public health.

Potential Amendment Related to Peer Review

        The Administration strongly opposes an amendment that may be
offered mandating peer review of D&scientific dataD8 supporting final
regulations.  The Administration is committed to using the best possible
science and peer review for rule-making. However, this amendment is
unnecessary, inappropriate, and wasteful.  Peer review is currently
incorporated in the Government-wide rule-making process, where it is
needed, through extensive outreach, public comment, and scientific
advisory boards. As drafted, this amendment would mandate a
one-size-fits-all requirement that would serve only to delay important
government action, in particular, rules designed to protect health safety
and the environment.  It would impose a costly additional step in the
regulatory process and could cover a large, heterogeneous set of rules, as
diverse as meat and poultry inspection rules, airplane and automobile
safety standards, FDA drug and device approvals, and rules to ensure safe
drinking water and clean air.  This would impose an undue burden on
numerous final rules by requiring substantial personnel and other
resources and could result in significant delays on important public
health and safety rules.


