RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Diana Fortuna ( CN=Diana Fortuna/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 16-JUL-1998 14:47:24.00

SUBJECT:   Wellstone alternatives

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP     [ OPD 1
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Andrea Kane ( CN=Andrea Kane/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP     [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Here are the options we've come up with.      We'd like feedback today as to
which to put in the weekly.

1. Agree to Wellstone's concept of 24 months of college counting under
the voc ed cap, but limit the number of hours of college that count as
work. Since the number of hours of work the law requires grows over time
(20 hrs per week in '98, 25 hrs in '99, and 30 hrs in 2000 and
thereafter), the options are many: We could say students always have to
work at least 5 or 10 hours a week; or we could say 10 or 20 hours per
week of college counts.

Pro's:          Keeps principle that people are working, just for fewer
hours while bettering           themselves.

2. Agree to Wellstone, but say that vocational education would remain
limited to 12 months per person, even though college would count for up to
24 months.  (This could be combined w/#l.)

Pro's:          Corrects Wellstone mistake of loosening up on voc ed and
allowing people to
                cycle through such programs for up to 2 years.

3. Agree to Wellstone, but say that only part of the 30% ed cap can be
college -- i.e., one-third or one-half.

Pro's/con's: Would limit the damage, but any sub-limit has the
disadvantage of seeming                pretty arbitrary.

4. Use the back-door route of easing up on separate state programs for
college. The NPRM says that if we prove that a state is diverting
non-working people into separate state programs so that they can make the
work participation rate, we reserve the right to add back those separate
state program people in computing the participation rate, potentially
subjecting the state to a penalty. We could now say that, if we find
they're not working because they're in college, we won't add them back in.
<.
     Pro's:           Maintains our rhetoric that we are not weakening the federal work
     requirements.

     Con's:          could be bigger exemption than Wellstone;
                     confusing;
                     creates precedent on separate state programs;
                     procedurally complex, since the NPRM is is our creation
     and is only a proposed          rule; could we announce this in
     advance of the final TANF rule?

     5. Agree to Wellstone's 24 months for voc ed, but not for college, on the
     theory that there is some overlap between community college and voc ed
     anyway, and that this language would allow for career-oriented community
     college degrees.

     Pro's:   Appears more limited

     Con's: Doesn't get credit for college change, while opening up
     potential voc ed abuses
     6. Amend the law to allow waivers of the work requirement for college.

     Pro's:   Very limited

     Con's: Not clear if we are saying this needs to be tested via
     demonstrations, or that we
                     think we need to look over states' shoulders as they do
     this, raising specter of
                     the bad old days of federal oversight.  Plus Cynthia hates
     it.
,.

