RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Julie A. Fernandes ( CN=Julie A. Fernandes/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD I   )

CREATION DATE/TIME:29-JUL-1998 10:49:20.00

SUBJECT:   H1B -- Abraham compromise legislation

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD I )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD I   )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Gene and Peter met with Abraham yesterday afternoon to discuss H-1B
legislation. According to Peter, Gene was tough (we need labor
protections) and Abraham was intransigent.  Peter got us a bootleg draft
of the Abraham compromise. We then sat down with the DOL to analyze what
it would mean.

Though the bill has moved in our direction, there are still some areas
where we need to push back.   For example: (1) the bill exempts from the
attestations employers that are more than 15% H-1B and does not count more
highly skilled workers (that earn more than $60K) toward this number; (2)
the legislation mandates that disputes over whether a u.S. worker was
denied employment in favor of an H-1B worker (part of the good faith
recru~tment attestation) would be settled by binding arbitration.   The
worker would have to prove their case by clear & convincing evidence; it
is unclear who would pay for this process; if the arbitration board
determines that the u.S. worker was unfairly denied an employment
opportunity, there is no sanction; and (3) the bill severely weakens the
prevailing wage determination by allowing the use of private wage surveys,
even if the Secy of Labor determines that the survey is no good.

We have discussed the problems with the bill with Peter.  Peter is meeting
with George Fishman (Smith's staff person) this afternoon (who, according
to Peter, shares some of our concerns). Also, Smith is meeting with
Gingrich this morning to try to convince him to intervene on his behalf
(Smith is getting a lot of pressure from Abraham, etc. to further weaken
the worker protections) .

julie
