RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Jerold R. Mande ( CN=Jerold R. MandejOU=OSTPjO=EOP [ OSTP I

CREATION DATE/TIME:31-JUL-1998 17:17:53.00

SUBJECT:   Treasury smuggling actions

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD I   )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD I      )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. ReedjOU=OPDjO=EOP @ EOP [ OPD I )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Cynthia Dailard ( CN=Cynthia DailardjOU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD I      )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Treasury called with its preliminary assessment of executive actions it
could take to combat smuggling. As you may recall, we asked Treasury
whether it could require prominent, 2-letter state abbreviations marked on
each cigarette package.

There is good and bad news. The bad news is that Treasury does not believe
it can require the 2-letter state marking on each package to combat
interstate smuggling.   The Contraband Cigarette Trafficking Act is the
applicable law.  Treasury believes it is already making full use of the
authority provided by CCTA, although with more resources it could step up
enforcement.  I also asked DoJ for help finding a statutory basis to
require state markings.   I haven't received DoJ's report.

The good news is that Treasury could do a lot more to combat international
smuggling using chapter 52 of the Internal Revenue Code. These actions
could be taken to prevent the loss of federal revenues.  Specifically
through rulemaking or EO we could:

1.   Require exported cigarettes to be clearly marked export-only.

2. Prohibit the reentry of exported cigarettes, which is currently
allowed.

3.  Increase the "proof requirements" for exported product.       e.g., who is
going to receive the cigarettes

4.   Require tracking marks for exported cigarettes.

5. Tighten up the rules on allowable carriers and quantities for exported
cigarettes. e.g.,   current law allows exports to be carried by fishing
vessels -- we could prohibit that.

Treasury is still vetting these proposals internally and will have a
written report next week.


