RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Thomas L, Freedman ( CN;Thomas L. Freedman/OU;OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:31-JUL-1998 13:13:01.00

SUBJECT:   NAS report on single food agency and Exec, Order

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN;Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O;EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Michelle Crisci ( CN=Michelle Crisci/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N, Reed ( CN=Bruce'N. Reed/OU=OPD/O;EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Mary L, Smith ( CN=Mary L, Smith/OU;OPD/O;EOP @ EOP [ OPD I )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU;WHO/O=EOP @ EOP   [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Attached is a draft executive order establishing a Food Safety Council,
The Council consists of the Secretaries of USDA, HHS, the DPC, and OSTP.
HHS and USDA co-chair and they would appoint an exec, director,  It is
charged with developing a unified food safety budget, a unified food
safety strategy, reviewing the NAS report and making recommendations, and
overseeing the research institute. We have discussed this concept (but
not the actual paper) with USDA and FDA, some people in each agency have
reservations about it, and would likely prefer not to preempt NAS, but to
instead wait and see what it says and what reaction it gets.  OMB will
also have concerns and will want time to vet it.  If you are interested in
circulating it, I have some thoughts on how to process it.

Other Information
The NAS report: According to sources, it is still on target for release
August 17,  It is still said to be critical of the current structure of
food safety and includes criticism of food safety planning, budget and
standard setting,  It reportedly suggests action on dietary supplements,
critiques current epidemiology, and criticizes the mixing of missions of
promoting food and regulating it.  It also cites specific recent examples
including Guatemalan raspberries and the salmonella in cereal.

Other Steps.
We've asked the agencies to come up with other steps that could be
announced independently or in conjunction with the above announcement.
Here is what they suggest,

1, Eggs,  The agencies say they could be ready to announce the shifting
of responsibility for eggs to USDA, previously it was split between FDA
and USDA.

2.   Achievements,  The agencies have prepared a list of areas in which
they do cooperate successfully.

3, Vision statement and public hearings. The agencies have a shared
"vision statement" on creating a "seamless food safety system" that they
would put in the federal register and hold public hearings on.
