   RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

   CREATOR: Richard Socarides ( CN=Richard Socarides/OU=WHO/O=EOP [ WHO I         )

   CREATION DATE/TIME: 4-AUG-1998 10:17:12.00

   SUBJECT:   Homosexuality Moves to the Fore of Political Dialogue

   TO: Elizabeth Gore ( CN=Elizabeth Gore/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB I      )
   READ:UNKNOWN

   TO: Craig T. Smith ( CN=Craig T. Smith/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO I )
   READ: UNKNOWN

   TO: Minyon Moore ( CN=Minyon Moore/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO I )
   READ:UNKNOWN

   TO: Tracey E. Thornton ( CN=Tracey E. Thornton/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO I )
   READ: UNKNOWN

   TO: Dario J. Gomez ( CN=Dario J. Gomez/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO I      )
   READ:UNKNOWN

   TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD I   )
   READ:UNKNOWN

   TO: Thomas L. Freedman ( CN=Thomas L. Freedman/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD I )
   READ:UNKNOWN

   TO: Charles E. Kieffer ( CN=Charles E. Kieffer/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB I )
   READ: UNKNOWN

   TO: Mary L. Smith ( CN=Mary L. Smith/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD I    )
   READ: UNKNOWN

  TO: Michael Deich ( CN=Michael Deich/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB I )
  READ:UNKNOWN

  TO: Robert N. Weiner ( CN=Robert N. Weiner/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO I       )
  READ:UNKNOWN

  TO: Barry J. Toiv ( CN=Barry J. Toiv/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO I )
  READ:UNKNOWN

  TO: Sylvia M. Mathews   ( CN=Sylvia M. Mathews/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB I           )
  READ: UNKNOWN

  TO: Karen Tramontano ( CN=Karen Tramontano/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO I       )
  READ:UNKNOWN

  TO: Martha Foley ( CN=Martha Foley/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
  READ: UNKNOWN

  TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD I )
  READ:UNKNOWN

  TO: virginia Apuzzo ( CN=Virginia Apuzzo/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO I )
  READ: UNKNOWN

  TO: Janet Murguia ( CN=Janet Murguia/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO I )


READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Joshua Gotbaum ( CN=Joshua Gotbaum/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Charles M. Brain ( CN=Charles M. Brain/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
---------------------- Forwarded by Richard Socarides/WHO/EOP on 08/04/98
10:16 AM ---------------------------



        Doug.Case @ sdsu.edu
        08/03/98 08:03:00 PM
Record Type: Record

To: Stuart D. Rosenstein, Richard Socarides
cc:
Subject: Homosexuality Moves to the Fore of Political Dialogue

NEW YORK TIMES
August 2, 1998
http://www.nytimes.com/

Homosexuality Moves to the Fore of Political Dialogue

By RICHARD L. BERKE

ASHINGTON -- Sen. Trent Lott, R-Miss., likened homosexuality to kleptomania
and alcoholism. But through a prism of pragmatic politics, his comments
seemed to make sense: The latest Gallup Poll shows that 59 percent of
Americans say that homosexual behavior is morally wrong. In his own party,
Lott played to a particularly receptive audience, because Republicans are
far less accepting of homosexuality than Democrats.

Given the pounding President Clinton took in 1993 when he tried to overturn
the ban on homosexuals in the military, he, too, seemed to be asking for
trouble recently when he issued an executive order barring federal agencies
from discriminating against homosexuals.

But Clinton's move may have been shrewd as well: The most pronounced shift
in attitudes toward homosexuals in recent years has been a steady increase
in support for equal rights in employment, housing and job protections. A
survey by the president's pollsters, released last week by the Human Rights
Campaign, a gay group, showed that 70 percent of Americans support
Clinton's order.

Public opinion about homosexuals is so fluid, and often so seemingly
contradictory, that it can be treacherous for any politician to take a
stand on anything related to homosexuality. For years Democrats and
Republicans have been skittish about the issue, and not only because many
people are uncomfortable about delving into private lives. Attitudes toward
homosexuality are so complex that they cannot easily be transformed into
yes or no party platforms.

The subject has been so verboten that it was considered a triumph for
homosexual organizations when, early in Clinton's first term, the White
House released a photograph of the president meeting with leaders of the


groups.

But now, homosexuality has sprung to the lead of political dialogue on more
fronts than ever. Last week, the House approved a measure that would deny
federal housing money to San Francisco because of its support of homosexual
partners; a measure, also passed, would take $21 million from housing
programs for people with AIDS and give it to veterans. The House will also
consider a measure that would deny federal money to carry out Clinton's
order regarding gay federal employees.

And Republicans have succeeded in blocking his nomination of a wealthy gay
contributor, James Hormel, as ambassador to Luxembourg. The debate
intensified when conservative groups began running full-page newspaper
advertisements featuring "reformed" homosexuals.

Homosexual groups responded with their own advertisements, including one
that featured smiling Republican parents and their lesbian daughter.

Democrats, too, are becoming more visible on gay issues. Clinton was the
guest of honor at a fund-raising event Saturday in East Hampton, N.Y.,
sponsored by gay Democrats. Vice President Al Gore and Rep. Dick Gephardt,
D-Mo., the Democratic leader, are increasingly willing to back gay issues.
Gore will be the featured speaker in September at the annual dinner of the
Human Rights Campaign. And five openly gay Democrats are running for
Congress this year, a record number.

For both parties, the debate is intended to bring out voters on the fringes
next November. Surveys show that the most conservative Republicans are
particularly uncomfortable with homosexuality, just as the most liberal
Democrats are most likely to embrace gay rights. But a deeper explanation
is that with the increasing aggressiveness of the gay political movement
and the greater visibility of gays in pop culture, there is an assumption
that tolerance is on the rise.

"We are talking about these issues as Americans as we never have before,"
said Richard Socarides, a senior White House adviser who is the principal
liaison on gay issues. "I'm sure that the changes in public opinion are
quite frightening to conservatives -- but they're irreversible."

That may be wishful thinking. While attitudes seem, slowly, to be drifting
toward acceptance, the conundrum is that most people still do not approve
of homosexuality.

"The contradiction is that Americans are strongly in favor of equal
opportunities -- even for a situation they don't necessarily approve of,"
said Frank Newport, the editor of the Gallup Poll.

As an example, the proportion of Americans who think homosexuals should be
hired as elementary school teachers has steadily increased, to 55 percent
in 1996 from 27 percent in 1977, according to the Gallup Poll. But there is
still a sizable proportion who do not want homosexuals teaching elementary
students. And in the view of many Americans, homosexual behavior is now
more acceptable than adultery. But people still lump the two in the same
category.

Survey after survey shows a generational divide. Seven out of 10 people who
are 65 and older say homosexual behavior is wrong, according to the Gallup
Poll; only five out of 10 who are between 18 and 29 have that view. While a
recent Gallup Poll found that more people think homosexuality is a product
of environment and upbringing rather than a biological trait, more and more


Americans think homosexuality is not a choice.

Because attitudes toward homosexuals are evolving, politicians can draw the
wrong conclusions from poll findings that seem to back their views. The
proliferation of AIDS made the public less sympathetic toward homosexuals
in the 1980s, but by the time of Clinton's election in 1992, tolerance had
increased immensely. But Clinton may have mistakenly concluded that an
increase in support for gay rights meant that people would support
homosexuals in the military. They did not.

Clinton was more mindful of the polls in his re-election campaign, when he
signed a bill that opposed gay marriages. The move enraged homosexual
organizations but was intended to help him rebuild good will with
conservative Democrats. Politically, it was a no-lose position because even
most Democrats who believe homosexual behavior is morally acceptable do not
believe that homosexuals should be allowed to marry.

Republicans are now finding that despite public discomfort with
homosexuality, sharp oratory may not be welcome either. Some are now
distancing themselves from Lott's comments, fearing they could make the
party appear intolerant and carry a political toll in November.

"I don't think it helps to have public leaders engaged in that kind of
dialogue," Speaker Newt Gingrich said. Gary Bauer, a prominent conservative
who heads the Family Research Council, said he wished the debate would
focus on policy matters like gay adoptions (which polls show most Americans
do not favor) -- not on whether homosexuality is a sin. But he also said,
"On the sin issue, I don't want to undercut Trent in any way."

Ed Goeas, a Republican pollster, said he did not share the view of some
Republicans that criticism of homosexuals by people like Bauer made his
party appear insensitive. He said he worried more about Sen. Alfonse
D'Amato, R-N.Y., who as part of his aggressive courtship of gay voters has
condemned many of his fellow Republicans.

"Someone like D'Amato saying we're intolerant hurts us far more than
anything Gary Bauer says," Goeas said, "because it plays into the label of
intolerance."

That Republicans are even debating how not to appear intolerant is perhaps
the best evidence of how the perception of public attitudes toward
homosexuals has evolved.

************************************************************************
This message has been distributed as a free, nonprofit informational
service, to those who have expressed a prior interest in receiving this
information for non-profit research and educational purposes only.    Please
do not publish, or post in a public place on the Internet, copyrighted
material without permission and attribution.   (Note: Press releases are
fine to reprint.  Don't reprint wire stories, such as Associated Press
stories, in their entirety unless you subscribe to that wire service.)
Forwarding of this material should not necessarily be construed as an
endorsement of the content.  In fact, sometimes messages from anti-gay
organizations are forwarded as "opposition research."




==================== ATTACHMENT   1 ====================
ATT CREATION TIME/DATE:   0 00:00:00.00



TEXT:
RFC-822-headers:
Received: from conversion.pmdf.eop.gov by PMDF.EOP.GOV (PMDF V5.1-9 #29131)
 id <01J06EHXWXBKOOC81J@PMDF.EOP.GOV>; Mon, 3 Aug 1998 19:04:37 EDT
Received: from Storm.EOP.GOV by PMDF.EOP.GOV (PMDF V5.1-9 #29131)
 with ESMTP id <01J06EHTF3PCOOC6D2@PMDF.EOP.GOV>; Mon,
 03 Aug 1998 19:04:31 -0400 (EDT)
Received: from mail.sdsu.edu ([130.191.25.1))
 by STORM.EOP.GOV (PMDF V5.1-10 #29131)
 with ESMTP id <01J06EHFCHIIOOOQZ7@STORM.EOP.GOV>; Mon,
 03 Aug 1998 19:04:12 -0400 (EDT)
Received: from [130.191. 242.121) ([130.191. 242.121) )
 by mail.sdsu.edu (8.8.7/8.8.7) with ESMTP id QAA05941; Mon,
 03 Aug 1998 16:02:48 -0700 (PDT)
X-Sender: dcase@mail.sdsu.edu
================== END ATTACHMENT    1 ==================


