RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:10-AUG-1998 17:28:09.00

SUBJECT:   Welfare Caseload Annoucement

TO: Elena Kagan      CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP   [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Christa Robinson ( CN=Christa Robinson/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Andrea Kane ( CN=Andrea Kane/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP      [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
I spoke to Melissa again today.  In an effort to positively influence the
welfare anniversary stories, she suggested what sounds to me like a good
plan:

Let MDRC release study on LA GAIN program (partially funded by HHS) , which
shows that this work first oriented program increased earnings and
employment and reduced welfare costs. Based on 1996 data.   MDRC will
begin briefing reporters Aug. 13th, with Aug. 20th embargo.

August 22nd radio address to a) announce new case load numbers b) refer to
new positive LA study and c) announce $1.6 million in HHS grants to
promote job retention and advancement (would fund a national contractor
to provide technical assistance on best practices to all states and would
provide planning grants to 13 states).  Backup plan: HHS leaks or releases
information on 19th or thereafter to get in stories on the 20th or 22nd.

It turns out the 10-12 grants to states to study what happens to those who
leave the rolls won't be ready until September, and Melissa suggested we
might not want to shine a bright light on them (since we don't know what
they'll find).  She and I also thought that the CASA grants (HHS will fund
substance abuse treatment and job training for welfare recipients in an
additional city (the 11th»  was dicey, mainly because Joe Califano is not
a welfare reform fan.  She thinks Donna should do an annoucement with
Califano in September, which is "treatment works" month.

Shalala's schedule is difficult in the coming weeks, so Melissa's dropped
the idea of getting her together with reporters.

What do you think?


