   RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (NOTES MAIL)

   CREATOR: Richard Socarides ( CN=Richard Socarides/OU=WHO/O=EOP [ WHO 1 )

   CREATION DATE/TIME: 17-AUG-1998 09:40:53.00

   SUBJECT:   Washington Blade Account of DC Adoption Vote & Hefley Amendment

   TO: Nanda Chitre ( CN=Nanda Chitre/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
   READ: UNKNOWN

   TO: Elizabeth Gore ( CN=Elizabeth Gore/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB 1 )
   READ:UNKNOWN

   TO: Craig T. Smith ( CN=Craig T. Smith/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO
   READ:UNKNOWN

   TO: Minyon Moore ( CN=Minyon Moore/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
   READ: UNKNOWN

   TO: Tracey E. Thornton ( CN=Tracey E. Thornton/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
   READ:UNKNOWN

   TO: Dario J. Gomez    ( CN=Dario J. Gomez/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
   READ: UNKNOWN

   TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
   READ: UNKNOWN

   TO: Thomas L. Freedman ( CN=Thomas L. Freedman/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
   READ:UNKNOWN

   TO: Charles E. Kieffer ( CN=Charles E. Kieffer/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB 1 )
   READ:UNKNOWN

   TO: Mary L. Smith ( CN=Mary L. Smith/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
   READ:UNKNOWN

   TO: Michael Deich ( CN=Michael Deich/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB 1 )
   READ: UNKNOWN

   TO: Julia M. Payne ( CN=Julia M. Payne/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
   READ:UNKNOWN

   TO: Robert N. Weiner ( CN=Robert N. Weiner/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
   READ: UNKNOWN

   TO: Barry J. Toiv ( CN=Barry J. Toiv/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
   READ:UNKNOWN

   TO: Sylvia M. Mathews   ( CN=Sylvia M. Mathews/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB 1 )
   READ:UNKNOWN

   TO: Karen Tramontano ( CN=Karen Tramontano/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
   READ:UNKNOWN

   TO: Martha Foley ( CN=Martha Foley/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
   READ:UNKNOWN

   TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )


READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Virginia Apuzzo ( CN;Virginia Apuzzo/OU;WHO/O;EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Janet Murguia ( CN;Janet Murguia/OU;WHO/O;EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Joshua Gotbaum ( CN;Joshua Gotbaum/OU;OMB/O;EOP @ EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Charles M. Brain ( CN;Charles M. Brain/OU;WHO/O;EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
---------------------- Forwarded by Richard Socarides/WHO/EOP on 08/17/98
09:40 AM ---------------------------



        Doug.Case @ sdsu.edu
        08/15/98 02:32:00 AM
Record Type: Record

To: Stuart D. Rosenstein, Richard Socarides
cc:
Subject: Washington Blade Account of DC Adoption Vote & Hefley Amendment

WASHINGTON BLADE
August 14, 1998
http://www.washblade.com

House passes adoptions ban
Needle exchange targeted

by Lou Chibbaro Jr.

The U.S. House of Representatives on August 7 approved separate amendments
that seek to prohibit D.C. from allowing unmarried couples, including
same-sex couples, to adopt children and ban the District from spending any
of its money to fund needle exchange programs to curtail the spread of
AIDS.

The House approved the two amendments two days after it defeated a third
amendment, introduced by Rep. Joel Hefley (R-Colo.), that sought to
overturn President Clinton's May 28 executive order banning job
discrimination against civilian federal employees because of their sexual
orientation.

Gay activists viewed the Aug. 5 defeat of the Hefley amendment as an
historic development, saying it marked the first time either house of
Congress has voted to take a position favoring a policy that protects Gay
people from job discrimination.

"I am gratified that the House has defeated an attempt to overturn my
executive order providing a uniform policy to prohibit discrimination based
on sexual orientation in the federal civilian workforce," President Clinton
said, in a statement released by the White House.

But the House votes in the early morning hours of Aug. 7 to approve the


amendments repealing D.C. 's adoption and needle exchange policies appeared
to place a damper on the upbeat mood among Gay activists.

Eight days earlier, on July 29, the House passed another two amendments
considered hostile to Gays and people with AIDS. One, introduced by Rep.
Frank Riggs (R-Calif.), seeks to withhold federal housing funds earmarked
for San Francisco unless that city repeals a unique stipulation in its
domestic partners law. The other, introduced by Rep. Van Hilleary
(R-Tenn.), seeks to remove $21 million earmarked for a federal housing
program for people with AIDS and would transfer the funds to a veterans
health care program instead.

The Senate has neither passed nor proposed any of the four amendments that
the House passed and which are considered hostile to Gays and people with
AIDS. Gay and AIDS activists said they were hopeful that House-Senate
conference committees will kill each of the four amendments later this
year.

On Friday, Aug. 7, The House passed the amendment calling for a ban on
unmarried couples adopting children in the District by a vote of 227 to
192. The vote broke down mostly along party lines, with 190 Republicans
voting for it and 30 Republicans voting against it, compared to 37
Democrats who voted for it and 161 Democrats who voted against it. The
House's sole independent, Rep. Bernard Sanders (I-Vt.), also voted against
it.

Rep. Steve Largent, (R-Okla.), a former NFL football player, introduced the
adoption amendment. In a heated debate that began Wednesday night, Aug. 6,
Largent denied that his amendment was aimed at Gay couples. He said he
believes only couples bound together by marriage can provide a stable home
needed for adopted children. But as the debate continued, Largent also
expressed concern that some Gay activists appear to be using the adoption
issue as a means of elevating Gay couples to a status equal to married
heterosexual couples, a status that he said is wrong. According to Largent,
some Gay activists are interested in exploiting adopted children as
"trophies from the culture war."

D.C. congressional Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D) took strong exception to
that assessment, calling the Largent amendment a form of "Gay-bashing."
Norton also argued that the amendment is an "outrageous" attempt by
Congress to interfere with D.C. 's local affairs.

Rep. Julian Dixon (D-Calif.), noting that 3,600 children are in D.C. foster
homes awaiting adoption, said the amendment would deny same-sex couples the
right to adopt, even if a judge and city adoption counselors believe such a
couple is well-qualified to raise a child. Dixon faulted the Largent
amendment as setting up a situation where a married couple suffering from
alcoholism would be qualified to adopt while two nuns wold be barred from
adopting.

Largent's amendment would bar the District from approving joint adoptions
for "individuals who are not related by blood or marriage."

The House passed the needle exchange ban by a vote of 250 to 169. That vote
also fell largely along party lines, with Republicans voting for it by a
margin of 205 to 15. Democrats voted against it by a margin of 153 to 45.
The amendment, introduced by Rep. Todd Tiahrt (R-Kan.), seeks to prohibit
the city from spending any of its funds to pay for clean needle exchange
programs. The amendment also calls for withholding federal funds to any
private organization that uses its own privately raised funds to carry out


needle exchange programs. That latter provision threatens to withhold
thousands of dollars in federal grants from the Whitman-Walker Clinic,
which is now operating D.C. 's needle exchange program under a contract with
the District government.

Rep. Connie Morella (R-Md.) joined Norton and Rep. James Moran (D-Va.) in
strongly denouncing the Tiahrt amendment. Moran introduced a separate
amendment aimed at canceling the effect of the Tiahrt amendment. But the
House voted 247 to 173 to defeat Moran's amendment.

The votes on the Largent and Tiahrt amendments, along with the votes on the
three other amendments, marked an unprecedented flurry of activity on Gay
and AIDS-related issues in Congress in such a short period of time. With
the House approving four of the five amendments hostile to Gays or people
with HIV, some Gay activists have called the developments an overall
setback for Gays and people with AIDS.

However, openly Gay Rep. Barney Frank (D-Mass.) and officials with Gay
groups that lobbied against the five recent amendments said a closer look
at the votes shows that pro-Gay forces in Congress have made considerable
progress over the pass several years. Frank noted that the Riggs amendment,
which calls for restricting San Francisco's domestic partners law, won by
just a two-vote margin.

"Five years ago," said Frank, "we would have lost Riggs by 30 votes or
more. n

Winnie Stachelberg, political director of the Human Rights Campaign, the
nation's largest Gay political group, noted that the Hilleary amendment,
which calls for cutting $21 million from an AIDS housing program, won by a
margin considerably narrower than a comparable 1996 House vote on funding
the AIDS housing program.

Frank, Stachelberg, and other Gay civil rights advocates said the House
defeat of the Hefley amendment marks a clear turning point in efforts to
beat back anti-Gay amendments aimed at job discrimination. They said it
also represents another important step in the advancement of the Employment
Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA) , a Gay civil rights bill that seeks to ban
anti-Gay job discrimination.

The Hefley amendment lost by a vote of 252 to 176, with a record number of
moderate and conservative Republicans joining forces with House Democrats
to vote against the measure.

Frank said the vote on the Hefley amendment demonstrates that when faced
with the issue of job discrimination against Gay people, a clear majority
in the House is willing to vote against such discrimination.

"This shows that if the Democrats take back the House, we can pass ENDA,"
said Frank. He said that although he believes a majority of House members
would vote for ENDA, the legislation remains doomed under the current
Republican-controlled House because GOP leaders have vowed not to bring it
to the House floor for a vote.

According to Frank, the biggest hurdle in lining up the votes needed to
defeat the Hefley amendment was persuading moderate and conservative
Republicans that Clinton's executive order had nothing to do with
affirmative action or hiring quotas associated with Gay federal employees.
Clinton's order added the terms "sexual orientation" and "gender" to an
existing order issued by President Richard Nixon that banned job


discrimination against civilian federal workers on the basis of race,
color, and religion. Although Clinton's change specifically states that it
does not create new legal rights, opponents of his executive order insisted
the wording could be interpreted to require both federal government and
private firms doing business with the government to put in place
affirmative action programs for Gays.

Among those playing a key role in debunking the affirmation action
argument, Frank and Gay activists said, was openly Gay Rep. Jim Kolbe
(R-Ariz.). Kolbe spoke out against the amendment on the House floor and
helped coordinate Republican opposition to the measure in a series of
behind the scene strategy sessions. To the dismay of anti-Gay groups that
lobbied hard for the Hefley amendment, 63 Republicans joined 188 Democrats
and one independent in opposing the Hefley amendment.

Among the groups that lobbied against the Hefley measure were the Human
Rights Campaign; the National Stonewall Democratic Federation, a group
representing Gay Democrats; Log Cabin Republicans, a national Gay GOP
group; and Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual Employees of the Federal Government
(Federal GLOBE). At least two key federal employee unions and the political
arm of the AFL-CIO also lobbied the House against the Hefley measure.

Daniel McGlinchey, acting director of the Stonewall Democratic group, said
Kolbe and a small corps of Republican House members opposing the Hefley
amendment had to work against key House Republican leaders, who favored the
Hefley measure. In marked contrast, McGlinchey said, Democrats opposing the
Hefley amendment had the full backing of House Democratic leaders,
including House Minority Leader Richard Gephardt.

"We shouldn't get too euphoric," said Frank. "We lost four of the other
[anti-Gay or hostile AIDS amendments) and we won only one. But the good
news is that on the issue of anti-discrimination, we're winning the
battle."

In his statement on the House vote defeating the Hefley amendment,
President Clinton said, "This vote reflected the values of our nation. The
American people believe in fairness, not discrimination, and the Hefley
amendment would have legitimized government-sponsored discrimination
against its own citizens based on their sexual orientation."


************************************************************************
This message has been distributed as a free, nonprofit informational
service, to those who have expressed a prior interest in receiving this
information for non-profit research and educational purposes only.    Please
do not publish, or post in a public place on the Internet, copyrighted
material without permission and attribution.   (Note: Press releases are
fine to reprint. Don't reprint wire stories, such as Associated Press
stories, in their entirety unless you subscribe to that wire service.)
Forwarding of this material should not necessarily be construed as an
endorsement of the content.  In fact, sometimes messages from anti-gay
organizations are forwarded as "opposition research."




==================== ATTACHMENT   1 ====================
ATT CREATION TIME/DATE:   0 00:00:00.00

TEXT:
..
     RFC-822-headers:
     Received: from conversion.pmdf.eop.gov by PMDF.EOP.GOV (PMDF V5.1-9 #29131)
      id <01JOM58QC5NKOODY51@PMDF.EOP.GOV>; Sat, 15 Aug 1998 01:32:33 EDT
     Received: from Storm.EOP.GOV by PMDF.EOP.GOV (PMDF V5.1-9 #29131)
      with ESMTP id <01JOM58P0760009DEH@PMDF.EOP.GOV>; Sat,
      15 Aug 1998 01:32:31 -0400 (EDT)
     Received: from mail.sdsu.edu ([130.191.25.1])
      by STORM.EOP.GOV (PMDF V5.1-10 #29131)
      with ESMTP id <01JOM57TYAIK0003IC@STORM.EOP.GOV>; Sat,
      15 Aug 1998 01:31:50 -0400 (EDT)
     Received: from [130.191.242.121] ([130.191.242.121])
      by mail.sdsu.edu (8.8.7/8.8.7) with ESMTP id WAA12187; Fri,
      14 Aug 1998 22:30:39 -0700 (PDT)
     X-Sender: dcase@mail.sdsu.edu
     ================== END ATTACHMENT   1 ==================


