RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Leanne A. Shimabukuro ( CN=Leanne A. Shimabukuro/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:21-AUG-1998 13:48:20.00

SUBJECT:   weekly

TO: Elena Kagan     CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Jose Cerda III ( CN=Jose Cerda III/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Crime -- COPS Event: We are working on a possible crime event for you
next week in Boston. At the event, you would announce: (1) the release by
DOJ and Education of the Early Warning Guide for youth violence, which you
called for after the Springfield, OR school shooting; (2) $30 million for
states to fund college scholarships for aspiring law enforcement officers
through the Police Corps; and (3) roughly $80 million for more than 1,000
communities to hire and retain police officers. DOJ and Education will
send out over 200,000 copies of the Early Warning Guide to schools, and
will post the full text on both of their Websites. The guide provides
teachers and principals with information on how to identify early warning
signs to violence by listing specific behaviors to look for, and what
steps they should take once they have identified such signs. The guide
also provides a crisis response checklist in case violence occurs, as well
as tips for student and parent involvement in addressing school safety.

with respect to the event program, we expect to have Mayor Menino -- who
may announce new, positive crime statistics -- and Police Commissioner
Evans. As another speaker, we have identified a recent Police Corps
graduate who became involved with the Corps because of his brother's
gang-related death.  We are also looking into adding a school resource
officer or active citizen involved in a community watch program, who can
discuss the importance of communities and schools working with law
enforcement.


