RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Julie A. Fernandes ( CN=Julie A. Fernandes/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:25-AUG-1998 16:32:00.00

SUBJECT:   Battered women and public charge

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Jack A. Smalligan ( CN=Jack A. Smalligan/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Elena,
I received a memo a few weeks ago from AYUDA (advocates for battered
immigrant women and abused immigrant children) reo battered women and
public charge. AYUDA wants the INS to issue guidance (and possibly a
regulation) that clarifies that battered immigrant women and children who
qualify for relief under the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) are exempt
from the "public charge" ground of inadmissibility.

In short, the 1996 Immigration Act provided that VAWA self-petitioners
(even those who are here illegally) would be considered "qualified aliens"
for purposes of their access to public benefits. Thus, they are eligible
to receive food stamps, Medicaid, TANF, etc. -- essentially all benefits
that they could receive as lawful permanent residents.  At the same time,
however, the INA generally requires an assessment of whether a person
requesting "admission" (which includes adjustment of status) is a "public c
harge" (as you know, we are in the midst of making a final determination
as to which benefits should be considered in the public charge analysis
generally) .

According to AYUDA, the best interpretation of the INA is that battered
immigrants with an approved VAWA self-petition are exempt from the public
charge provision; however, they think that there is some confusion within
the battered immigrant community about this question.  INS, as a
preliminary matter, agrees that VAWA self-petitioners are exempt.  To be
sure, INS is going to ask its General Counsel (at INS) to review the
question and will let us know.  If this is the correct interpretation, we
could include this guidance as part of the general public charge guidance.

julie


