RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Diana Fortuna ( CN=Diana Fortuna/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1

CREATION DATE/TIME:19-FEB-1997 14:10:44.00

SUBJECT:   Legal Immigrant Strategy

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Stephen C. warnath ( CN=Stephen C. Warnath/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
We held an initial meeting of our new legal immigrant strategy group
today, with HHS, SSA, USDA,' INS, OMB, and intergovernmental in
attendance. We stressed to the agencies that we need their commitment and
cooperation, and for them to take ownership of the issue.

Today we focused on organizing the agencies to work together to produce
good paper, particularly Q&A that responds to criticisms of our
proposals.   Agencies will do initial drafts by tomorrow, and we will meet
as a group again early next week to look at the product.

We decided to have a meeting the week after next with immigration, health,
and disability groups, to share this paper with them, get them energized,
share ideas, and demonstrate our commitment on this issue.   It may be
helpful for you to make a brief appearance at such a meeting to help on
this last point.

We also decided to reach out to the counties and cities. We hope to do
some numbers on the impact by state/region so that these groups are better
armed.  The VP is apparently doing a NACO conference sometime soon.  Emily
doesn't think we can expect much from the Governors immediately.

We didn't get too far on legislative strategy yet, and will discuss that
at our next meeting.

After the meeting, Ken and I talked about the "bucket" issue. What this
would do is convert a chunk of the legislative fix into an admin fix.   It
would let more people who are losing SSI.keep Medicaid, either temporarily
or permanently.  If we do this, it would make the remaining legislative
package less compelling, but the administrative action itself would
certainly be a positive move.   (Although of course some advocates would be
disappointed because it is not a total fix of the problem.)

I will keep you posted on next steps.


