RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Julie A. Fernandes ( CN=Julie A. Fernandes/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 3-SEP-1998 16:04:05.00

SUBJECT:   H2A -- Latino Summit on 9/10

TO: Peter G. Jacoby ( CN=Peter G. Jacoby/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Janet Murguia ( CN=Janet Murguia/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP   [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Mindy E. Myers ( CN=Mindy E. Myers/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
On Thursday, September 10th, there will be a Latino Summit (sponsored by
NCLR, MALDEF, and a few farmworker organizations) to protest the Wyden
guestworker amendment attached to the Sen. CJS bill.  The organizers of
the summit have asked Maria E. to attend and to make a statement strongly
opposing the amendment and pledging to work to get it removed from the
bill in conference. As you know, when the amendment was considered in the
Senate, we issued a statement (letter from Secy Herman) strongly opposing
the amendment. Also, we have a Secy of Labor veto statement on a similar
(but not as bad) bill in the House.

Though the amendment passed the Senate by a large margin, the Latino
groups, farmworker advocates and labor unions have been working members of
Congress to get them to understand how bad the Wyden amendment is. Also,
Lamar Smith has sent a letter to Rogers asking that he oppose inclusion of
this guestworker bill in the CJS conferenced bill.  In addition, Gallegly
sent a letter to Livingston (with 82 House signatories -- most, if not
all, Republicans) also asking for this amendment to be excluded.  Accordin
g to Earl G. at Labor, it is likely that this amendment will not end up
included in the conferenced bill.

The question is whether we think it would be a good idea for Maria E. to
attend the Latino Summit and make a strong statement opposing the Wyden
amendment.  Maria returns this week-end, and may want our advice on this.
Thanks.

julie


