RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Kate P. Donovan ( CN=Kate P. Donovan/OU=OMB/O=EOP [ OMB 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:10-SEP-1998 10:54:54.00

SUBJECT:   DRAFT DOD APPROPRIATIONS CONFEREES LETTER

TO: RUDMAN M@A1@CD@VAXGTWY    RUDMAN M@A1@CD@VAXGTWY [ UNKNOWN 1 )    (NSC)
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Todd Stern ( CN=Todd Stern/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Kerri A. Jones ( CN=Kerri A. Jones/OU=OSTP/O=EOP@EOP [ OSTP 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Kathleen A. McGinty ( CN=Kathleen A. McGinty/OU=CEQ/O=EOP@EOP [ CEQ 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Joshua Gotbaum ( CN=Joshua Gotbaum/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Martha Foley ( CN=Martha Foley/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Sally Katzen ( CN=Sally Katzen/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: John Podesta ( CN=John podesta/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Sara Wilson ( CN=Sara Wilson/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: G. E. DeSeve ( CN=G. E. DeSeve/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Jeffrey M. Smith ( CN=Jeffrey M. Smith/OU=OSTP/O=EOP@EOP [ OSTP 1
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Wesley P. Warren ( CN=Wesley P. Warren/OU=CEQ/O=EOP@EOP [ CEQ 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Lisa M. Kountoupes   ( CN=Lisa M. Kountoupes/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP   [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Ron Klain ( CN=Ron Klain/O=OVP@OVP      [ UNKNOWN 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Gene B. Sperling ( CN=Gene B. Sperling/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Rahm I. Emanuel   ( CN=Rahm I. Emanuel/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: FARRAR J@A1@CD@VAXGTWY    FARRAR J@A1@CD@VAXGTWY [ UNKNOWN 1 ) (NSC)


READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Victoria A. Wachino ( cN=Victoria A. Wachino/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Robert L. Nabors    ( CN=Robert L. Nabors/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB J )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Paul J. weinstein Jr.    ( CN=Paul J. weinstein Jr./OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Emil E. Parker ( CN=Emil E. Parker/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP    [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Lisa Zweig ( CN=Lisa Zweig/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Charles Konigsberg ( CN=Charles Konigsberg/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Shannon Mason ( CN=Shannon Mason/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD J )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Michelle Crisci ( CN=Michelle Crisci/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Jessica L. Gibson ( CN=Jessica L. Gibson/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Thomas A. Kalil    ( CN=Thomas A. Kalil/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Rosemary Evans    ( CN=Rosemary Evans/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Adrienne C. Erbach ( CN=Adrienne C. Erbach/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Peter A. Weissman ( CN=Peter A. Weissman/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Judy Jablow ( CN=Judy Jablow/OU=CEQ/O=EOP@EOP [ CEQ 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Charles R. Marr ( CN=Charles R. Marr/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Elizabeth Gore ( CN=Elizabeth Gore/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Jonathan H. Adashek ( CN=Jonathan H. Adashek/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO J )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Melissa G. Green ( CN=Melissa G. Green/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Kevin S. Moran ( CN=Kevin S. Moran/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )


READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Below is the draft conferees letter for the Defense Appropriations bill.
We aim to finalize the letter later this evening.  please provide
comments/clearance by 6pm tonight.  Thank you.

The Honorable Bob Livingston
Chairman
Committee on Appropriations
U.S. House of Representatives
Washington, D.C.  20515

Dear Mr. Chairman:

        The purpose of this letter is to provide the AdministrationD,s
views on H.R. 4103, the Department of Defense Appropriations Bill, FY
1999, as passed by the House and by the Senate. As the conferees develop
a final version of the bill, your consideration of the AdministrationD,s
views would be appreciated.

        Both the House and the Senate have provided requested funding for
many of the AdministrationD,s priorities.  In particular, we appreciate
the SenateD,s full funding of contingency operations in Bosnia at the
requested level and as emergency funding.  We intend to work with the
Congress to ensure that full funding for Bosnia and related military
readiness priorities is approved.

        The Administration strongly opposes any provision, such as section
8106 in the House version of the bill, that could be read to require prior
congressional authorization of actions taken by the President pursuant to
his authority under the Constitution.  The President must be able to act
decisively to protect U.S. national security and foreign policy
interests. This provision would send the wrong signal to the world about
U.S. resolve to enforce Iraqi compliance with sanctions,  to sustain SFOR
operations in Bosnia, and to deter Serbian President Milosevic from
attacks on the people of Kosovo.  The PresidentD,s senior national
security advisers would recommend veto of a bill with such a provision
that could be interpreted to restrict the PresidentD,s exercise of
constitutional authority.

        The Administration regrets the SenateD,s inclusion of a provision that
would prohibit the President from deploying u.s. forces to Yugoslavia,
Albania, or Macedonia without first consulting with and reporting to
Congress. We are opposed to any provision that could, as a practical
matter, serve to constrain the President from acting in our national
security and foreign policy interest, or that would require consultation
and reporting that could delay the immediate and effective action of U.S.
forces.  The Administration has every intent to consult with Congress in
such situations, but imposing a legislated ban in the absence of
consultation may be read by the Serbian leadership and others as
preventing the President from acting to protect U.S. interests. The
Administration strongly urges the conferees to exclude this provision from
the final bill.

Funding for Bosnia Contingency Operations

        The Administration appreciates the SenateD,s inclusion of
emergency funding for our ongoing operations in Bosnia. A U.S. military
presence, albeit at lower force levels, is critical for continued progress


in implementing the Dayton Peace Accords.  Moreover, a secure funding
source for these operations at the start of the fiscal year will allow the
Department to manage its readiness accounts effectively throughout the
year.  The Administration strongly urges the Congress to approve this
funding to support U.S. troops in Bosnia and protect military readiness.

Funding for Defense Programs

        Both the House and the Senate provide large increases for
procurement and RDT&E programs that are not in DoDD,s long-range plans and
are of questionable value to the DepartmentD,s modernization efforts.
These programs are funded at the expense of other priority programs.   For
example, the Senate bill adds $255 million for three unrequested C-130J
airlift aircraft, $94 million for the Space Based Laser program, and $50
million for advance procurement of the LHD-8 amphibious ship, which will
require extensive funding in later years to complete.  The House bill adds
$86 million for modifications to B-2 bombers, $398 million for seven
unrequested C-130J aircraft, and $60 million for two F-16 fighter
aircraft.  Both the House and the Senate have added substantial
unrequested funding -- $220 million and $287 million, respectively     for
National Guard and Reserve Equipment (not including C-130J aircraft) .

        Instead of funding unrequested programs, we urge the conferees to
fully fund the AdministrationD,s request for key modernization programs,
including the following:

  Fighter Aircraft.  The House has cut the Air Force F-22 program by $70
million. This reduction would result in programmatic delays and
significantly increase overall costs. The House also has cut the Navy
F/A-18E/F program by $220 million, which would delay deployment of the
first operational aircraft and force the Navy to keep older, less capable
aircraft in the fleet.

 Aerostat Program.  The House and the Senate have reduced the aerostat
program by $104 million and $59 million, respectively.  The House cut
would terminate the program, while the Senate cut would delay the program
significantly.

 Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction Program.  The House cut of $59
million and the Senate cut of $75 million could delay a program that is on
schedule to meet our obligations under the Chemical Weapons Convention.

Defense Environmental Restoration.  The House cut of $35 million and the
Senate cut of $24 million would delay by a year or more needed cleanup
activities at several installations, undermining confidence in DoDD,s
commitment to the program and possibly worsening environmental conditions.

 Shipbuilding. The House and Senate have decreased funding by $90 million
and $116 million, respectively, in research and development for the
CVX-78, the next-generation aircraft carrier.  The House has reduced R&D
funding by $69 million for the next-generation destroyer, the DD-21.  Such
deep reductions in these programs would jeopardize the NavyD,s ability to
develop the new technologies necessary to achieve life-cycle cost savings.

 Computing Systems and Communications Technology/Networks. The House has
reduced funding for this program by $34 million.  Funding at the requested
level is required for the development of flexible network tools to support
troop deployments.

Comanche Reconnaissance Attack Helicopter.   The Senate has cut requested


funding by $18.6 million.  This reduction would delay new design
integration into the first prototype aircraft and flight testing of the
second prototype aircraft, thereby slowing the entire program and
increasing the schedule risk.

 Cooperative Threat Reduction Program. The House has decreased funding by
$25 million from the requested level.  This cut would delay construction
of a chemical weapons destruction facility required to dismantle the
Russian chemical weapons stockpile.

 Defense Threat Reduction Agency.  The SenateD,s $27 million O&M cut takes
savings over and above those already assumed in the request due to
consolidation. This cut ~ould require program reductions in areas such as
training for arms control inspection escorts and could cause fewer arms
control mock inspection and force protection vulnerability assessments.

 Global Positioning Systenn(GPS). The Senate has reduced GPS user
equipment development by $31 million.  This equipment is a critical
element of the Administration's strategy to make GPS more available for
civilian navigational uses.

 Electronic Commerce/Electronic Data Interchange and the Global Combat
Support System.   The House has reduced the Defense Information Systems
Agency budget by $11 mill ion, which would adversely affect the
DepartmentD, s ability to improve business efficiencies and provide
electronic capabilities to the warfighter.

 Basic Defense Research Programs. The House has cut $58 million from
programs that lay the foundation for tomorrowD, s military superiority.
Funding for Intelligence Programs

        The Administration objects to the Senate's significant reduction
to the request for intell igence funding.  The Senate's reduction would
impede the Administration's efforts to maintain and strengthen our
intelligence capabilities.   The Administration urges the conferees to
appropriate the full amount of the President's request to ensure that the
Intelligence Community can meet the most pressing needs of our national
policy makers and combatant commanders.

Year 2000 Reserve Funds

         In the FY 1999 Budget, the President requested more than $1 billion for
Year 2000 (Y2K) computer conversion, including specific amounts in the
requests for the agencies funded in this bill.    In addition, the budget
anticipated that additional requirements would emerge over the course of
the year and included an allowance for emergencies and other unanticipated
needs. On September 2nd, the President transmitted to the Congress a
request for $3.25 billion in FY 1998 contingent emergency funding for Y2K
computer conversion activrities.   This supplemental request would create a
funding mechanism that is consistent with both the needs anticipated in
the President's budget and the Senate's action creating a $3.25 billion
contingent emergency reserve to provide the resources and the flexibility
necessary to respond to critical unanticipated Y2K-related requirements.
I t is essential that this contingent emergency funding be enacted as
quickly as possible, whether through the Treasury/General Government bill
or another legislative measure moving through the process earlier,
particularly in light of the decision of several Subcommittees not to
fully fund the base requests of a number of agencies for Y2K conversion.
We urge Congress to leave as much as possible of the reserve unallocated
so that funds are availa1:>le to address emerging needs.



Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Adjustments

        The Administration appreciates the emphasis placed by the House
and Senate on preserving military readiness by funding critical readiness
accounts.  Force readiness could be threatened, however, by reductions
made by both the House and Senate to requested funding for administration
and support, civilian and military personnel under-execution, information
technology, and management headquarters programs.  These cuts far exceed
achievable savings and would cause substantial and costly disruptions to
DoD operations by diverting other O&M funds to cover must-pay
requirements. Equally threatening are undistributed reductions to
Contractor Advisory and Assistance Services. Cuts to these services would
severely inhibit the DepartmentO,s efforts to become more efficient
through contracting for services that the private sector can provide most
effectively, such as support for the Y2K conversion efforts.

        The PresidentO,s request is tightly constructed within the
discretionary caps agreed to in the Bipartisan Budget Agreement.
Adjustments must be carefully evaluated to ensure that DoD has sufficient
funding available for its O&M programs. In addition, the Administration
is concerned about additional restrictions that would hinder a field level
commanderO,s abilities to meet emerging mission requirements quickly in a
constantly changing environment. We would like to work with the conferees
to identify appropriate mechanisms for ensuring adequate congressional and
Administration oversight of operations programs.

Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and civic Assistance

        The Administration regrets the $7.2 million cut by the House and
the $13 million cut by the Senate to the President's request for the
Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and civic Assistance account.   During FY
1997, these funds were used by u.S. forces to assist 15 countries in
de-mining efforts, to execute 130 assistance and disaster relief transport
missions, and to procure 300,000 Humanitarian Daily Rations.   Each year,
we have unanticipated requirements that drain the fund, leaving our
military commanders no resources to handle emergencies. The
Administration urges the conferees to restore funding to the President's
requested level. This will allow u.S. forces to respond appropriately and
expediently to unanticipated global emergencies.

Warsaw Initiative (Partnership for Peace) Funding

         The SenateO,s $15.4 million reduction to the Warsaw Initiative
program could result in the cancellation or diminution of planned
Partnership for Peace-related activities, with attendant adverse political
and diplomatic repercussions.   Growth in the DoD Warsaw Initiative program
results from our successful encouragement of Partner participation in both
joint exercises and interoperability programs. u.s. interests in securing
Central European and NIS democratization require continued DoD engagement,
which can only be accomplished with the full funding of the PresidentO,s
request.   The Administration urges the conferees to accept the House
position.

Funding for Landmines and Humanitarian De-mining Technologies

        The House's $5.5 million cut to the Remote Anti-Armor   Mine System
and $9.0 million cut to the humanitarian de-mining R&D effort   would
disrupt progress on both of these priority programs and would   delay
production decisions critical to the President's initiative.    Furthermore,


while the Senate version fully funds the Antipersonnel Landmines
alternative R&D, it includes restrictive language which would introduce
new programs with different funding and scheduling requirements.   This
introduction would unacceptably delay the ongoing APL alternative effort.
The Administration urges the conferees to adopt the Senate position
without the restrictive language provisions.

Dual Use R&D

        Both the House and Senate bills significantly reduce the
AdministrationD,s request for the Dual Use Applications Program (DUAP) and
the Commercial Operations and Support Savings Initiative (COSSI).  The
House has cut DUAP by $6 million and COSSI by $42 million.  The Senate has
cut DUAP and COSSI by $30 million each.  These dual-use technology
development and commercial technology insertion programs will help lower
production and support costs, increase performance, and modernize many DoD
systems more readily than could be done through use of DoD-unique
technologies. The Administration encourages the conferees to adopt the
House position for DUAP and to fully fund the AdministrationD,s request
for COSSI.

Next Generation Internet

        The Senate has provided only $30 million for Next Generation
Internet (NGI) funding, $10 million less than requested.   Funding this
program will support research into high-rate data networking technologies
that will be needed by DoD's information-intensive systems in the near
future.   The Administration urges the conferees to adopt the House
position.

Advanced Concept Technology Demonstrations (ACTDs)

        The House has reduced the request for core ACTO funding by $35
million, to $81 million.  The Senate has reduced the request by $6
million. This program is structured to address the urgent military needs
of the joint warfighter and is vital to the congressionally-directed Joint
Warfighting Program recently established at U.S. Atlantic Command. The
House reduction would limit the DepartmentD,s ability to test new defense
system concepts early in the development phase, when changes to these
systems are relatively inexpensive and provide the greatest payoff. The
Administration urges the conferees to adopt the Senate position.

Infrastructure Protection

        The Administration is concerned about the $69.9 million cut made
by the Senate to the Joint Infrastructure Protection program.  This cut
would delay action to reduce DoD and national infrastructure
vulnerabilities to cyber attacks, as required by Presidential Decision
Directive 63.   The Administration urges the conferees to adopt the House
position.

National Performance Review (NPR)

        The House's drastic NPR funding cut would undermine DoD's drive to
improve its business operations. The Administration urges elimination of
the provision limiting DoD's support of the NPR.

Restrictive Language Issues

        The Senate version of the bill contains objectionable language


concerning restrictions on the issuing of visas. The Administration
believes that any new visa restrictions should be addressed through an
orderly process of amending the Immigration and Nationality Act when it is
clear that existing grounds of inadmissability are insufficient, and not
through funding restrictions.   In addition, visa restrictions should be
subject to appropriate waivers.   The waiver provisions in the proposed
legislation would unduly restrict the PresidentD,s authority to conduct
foreign relations and the ability of the United States to honor its legal
commitments to the United Nations. The Administration strongly urges the
conferees to delete these provisions.

       We look forward to working with you to address our mutual concerns.

                                                Sincerely,




                                                Jacob J. Lew
                                                Director


Identical Letter Sent to The Honorable Bob Livingston,
The Honorable David R. Obey, The Honorable C.W. Bill Young,
The Honorable John P. Murtha, The Honorable Ted Stevens,
The Honorable Robert C. Byrd,  and The Honorable Daniel K. Inouye


