RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Michael Cohen ( CN=Michael Cohen/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:10-SEP-1998 18:34:26.00

SUBJECT:   weekly report

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Charter schools legislation. The Administration is continuing discussions
with Senate staff to reach agreement to bring a charter school bill to the
Senate floor.  The bill was approved by full committee with bipartisan
support last month, and is generally similar-- with a few important
differences that would need to be resolved in conference -- to a
bipartisan charter school bill approved by the House last year. The final
obstacle to approval by the full Senate appears to be a demand from
Senator Harkin permitting a small portion of funds from the charter school
program to support "innovative" non-charter schools, in states that do not
permit charter schools.  Senate Republicans (and Senator Kennedy'S office)
oppose this provision because it undermines one purpose of the bill--to
provide incentives to states to enact charter schools legislation.    In
order to keep the bill moving forward, we are attempting to broker a
compromise, either by helping Sen. Harkin find ways of directing funds to
innovative schools outside the framework of charter schools legislation,
or by including in the charter schools bill a small demonstration program
to support schools with most features of charter schools (i.e., a public
school of choice with flexibility and a performance contract) but that are
not located in a state with a charter school law.   It is unclear whether
either Harkin or the Republicans will accept this compromise.


