RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Kate P. Donovan ( CN=Kate P. Donovan/OU=OMB/O=EOP [ OMB 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 16-SEP-1998 21:32:53.00

SUBJECT:   DRAFT TREASURY/POSTAL APPROPS CONFEREES LTR

TO: Maria Echaveste ( CN=Maria Echaveste/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: RUDMAN M@A1@CD@VAXGTWY    RUDMAN M@A1@CD@VAXGTWY [ UNKNOWN 1 )   (NSC)
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Todd Stern ( CN=Todd Stern/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP      [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Kerri A. Jones   ( CN=Kerri A. Jones/OU=OSTP/O=EOP@EOP [ OSTP 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Kathleen A. McGinty ( CN=Kathleen A. McGinty/OU=CEQ/O=EOP@EOP [ CEQ 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Joshua Gotbaum ( CN=Joshua Gotbaum/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Martha Foley ( CN=Martha Foley/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Sally Katzen ( CN=Sally Katzen/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: John Podesta ( CN=John Podesta/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Michelle Peterson ( CN=Michelle Peterson/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: G. E. DeSeve ( CN=G. E. DeSeve/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Jeffrey M. Smith ( CN=Jeffrey M. Smith/OU=OSTP/O=EOP@EOP [ OSTP 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Wesley P. Warren ( CN=Wesley P. Warren/OU=CEQ/O=EOP@EOP [ CEQ 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Lisa M. Kountoupes   ( CN=Lisa M. Kountoupes/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Ron Klain ( CN=Ron Klain/O=OVP@OVP      [ UNKNOWN 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Gene B. Sperling ( CN=Gene B. Sperling/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Rahm I. Emanuel ( CN=Rahm I. Emanuel/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )


READ:UNKNOWN

CC: FARRAR J@Al@CD@VAXGTWY     FARRAR J@Al@CD@VAXGTWY [ UNKNOWN 1 )    (NSC)
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Victoria A. Wachino ( CN=Victoria A. WachinojOU=OMBjO=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Robert L. Nabors ( CN=Robert L. Nabors/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Paul J. Weinstein Jr.    ( CN=Paul J. weinstein Jr./OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP   [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Emil E. Parker ( CN=Emil E. Parker/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Lisa Zweig ( CN=Lisa zweig/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP    [ OMB 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Charles Konigsberg ( CN=Charles KonigsbergjOU=OMBjO=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Shannon Mason ( CN=Shannon Mason/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Michelle Crisci    ( CN=Michelle CriscijOU=WHOjO=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Jessica L. Gibson ( CN=Jessica L. Gibson/OU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Rosemary Evans    ( CN=Rosemary Evans/OU=OMB/O=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Adrienne C. Erbach ( CN=Adrienne C. Erbach/OU=OMBjO=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Peter A. Weissman ( CN=Peter A. Weissman/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Judy Jablow ( CN=Judy Jablow/OU=CEQjO=EOP@EOP [ CEQ 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Charles R. Marr ( CN=Charles R. Marr/OU=OPDjO=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Elizabeth Gore ( CN=Elizabeth Gore/OU=OMBjO=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Jonathan H. Adashek ( CN=Jonathan H. Adashek/OU=WHOjO=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura EmmettjOU=WHO/O=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Melissa G. Green ( CN=Melissa G. Green/OU=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Kevin S. Moran ( CN=Kevin S. MoranjOU=WHOjO=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )


READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Below is the draft Treasury/Postal Appropriations conferees letter.
Intense preconferencing began Wednesday (9/16), and it is possible the
bill could go to conference Thursday evening (9/17).  Please provide
comments/clearance by 11am tomorrow.  Thank you.

The Honorable Bob Livingston
Chairman
Committee on Appropriations
u.s. House of Representatives
Washington, D.C.   20515

Dear Mr. Chairman:

        The purpose of this letter is to provide the AdministrationD,s
views on H.R. 4104, the Treasury and General Government Appropriations
Bill, FY 1999, as passed by the House and by the Senate. As you develop
the conference version of the bill, your consideration of the
AdministrationO,s views would be appreciated.

        The Administration appreciates efforts by Congress to accommodate
the PresidentD,s priorities within the 302(b) allocation.   The President's
FY 1999 Budget proposes levels of discretionary spending for FY 1999 that
conform to the Bipartisan Budget Agreement by making savings in mandatory
and other programs available to help finance this spending.   In the
Transportation Equity Act, Congress -- on a broad, bipartisan basis --
took similar action in approving funding for surface transportation
programs paid for with mandatory offsets.   In addition, this year, as in
the past, such mandatory offsets have been approved by the House and
Senate in other appropriations bills.   We want to work with Congress on
mutually agreeable mandatory and other offsets that could be used to
increase high priority discretionary programs, including those funded by
this bill.  In addition, we hope the conferees will reduce funding for
lower priority and unrequested discretionary programs.

        Below is a discussion of our specific concerns with the House and
Senate versions of the bill. We look forward to working with the
conferees to resolve our concerns as the bill moves forward.

Year 2000 Computer Conversion

        In the FY 1999 Budget, the President requested more than $1
billion for Year 2000 (Y2K) computer conversion.  In addition, the budget
anticipated that additional requirements would emerge over the course of
the year and included an allowance for emergencies and other unanticipated
needs. On September 2nd, the President transmitted to the Congress a
request for $3.25 billion in FY 1998 contingent emergency funding for Y2K
computer conversion activities. This supplemental request would create a
funding mechanism that is consistent with both the needs anticipated in
the President's budget and the Senate's action creating a $3.25 billion
contingent emergency reserve to provide the resources and the flexibility
necessary to respond to critical unanticipated Y2K-related requirements.

        It is essential that Y2K contingent emergency funding be enacted
as quickly as possible, whether through the Treasury/General Government
bill or another legislative measure moving through the process earlier.
We urge Congress to leave as much as possible of the reserve unallocated
so that funds are available to address emerging needs.  In addition, the


Administration opposes the principle of earmarking the Y2K emergency
funds.  Such earmarking would interfere with our ability to efficiently
allocate the funds to address Y2K emergency funding needs.

Federal Election Commission

        The Administration urges the conferees to fully fund the Federal
Election Commission (FEC) at the $36.5 million level requested by the
President and approved by the House and Senate.

        The Administration appreciates the modifications made to the
Senate term limits language in part because the revised language would
retain the current practice that requires a vote of four commissioners to
remove the staff director and general counsel.  The Senate provision would
appoint the staff director and general counsel for six-year terms that are
renewable by a vote of three of the six members of the Commission.
However, the Senate provision could raise constitutional questions under
the separation or powers clause of the Constitution. The Administration
would strongly oppose any attempt to return to the original House
Committee language.

Obligation Delays

        The Administration strongly objects to language in the Senate bill that
would impose $592 million in obligation delays on Treasury programs.
These provisions would prevent expenditure of funds before September 30,
1999, effectively reducing program levels for FY 1999 and seriously
hindering Treasury program operations.  For example:

 For the IRS, the obligation delay of $175 million for Tax Law Enforcement
would result in a six-percent reduction in personnel and a loss of
substantial tax collections.  The $69 million obligation delay for
Information Systems would effectively halt IRSD, modernization efforts
until the following fiscal year, jeopardizing efforts to refocus the IRS
on providing good customer service for taxpayers.

 For Treasury Enforcement, the obligation delay of $28 million for
CustomsD, Salaries and Expenses would hinder CustomsD, efforts to combat
drug smuggling across the southern tier of the United States and to detect
shifts in trafficking patterns, and it would inhibit maintenance of
essential equipment.  The $23 million obligation delay against CustomsD,
Operations and Maintenance, Air and Marine Interdiction Programs account
would lead to a reduction in interdiction flight hours, cripple essential
maintenance for air and marine fleets, and result in a deterioration of
air and marine fleet assets.  The $14 million in obligation delays for the
Secret Service would cause unacceptable risks to Presidential safety.

        We urge the conferees to reject the use of obligation delays that
postpone the expenditure of necessary funds.

Internal Revenue Service

        The Administration appreciates the CongressD,s efforts to fund the
PresidentD,s request for the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and looks
forward to working closely with the Congress to identify ways in which
full funding of the PresidentD,s request can be achieved.

         The Administration appreciates Congressional support for
business-line investment that would sharply increase the productivity of
the IRS.   We urge the conferees to provide the full $125 million requested


by the President for such investments.  The Administration also
appreciates congressional support for IRS information technology
investments and urges the conferees to adopt the $210 million for the
Information Technology Investments account provided in the House bill. We
are concerned with House language that would condition the use of IRS
funds.  Tying the obligation of IRS funds to GAO review of expenditure
plans, as contained in the House bill, is objectionable since the
Administration has no control over the nature or timing of any prospective
GAO review.

U.S. Customs Service

        The Administration is concerned about the funding levels in both
bills for CustomsD, Automated Commercial Environment. Without major
revisions to the existing system, Customs cannot keep up with increasing
trade volumes nor can it be responsive to the requirements stated in the
1993 Modernization Act and the needs articulated by industry. The House-
and Senate-passed bills have funded only $8 million of the requested $56
million and have imposed obligation delays against the $8 million
provided, which would cause the modernization effort to come to a halt.
We urge the conferees to provide full funding at the $56 million level
requested to allow Customs to continue its modernization effort.  We also
suggest that the conferees seriously consider the user fee proposed by the
Administration as a potential source of this necessary funding.

Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF)

        The Administration appreciates the efforts of the House and the
Senate to fully fund the President's Youth Crime Gun Interdiction
Initiative. This initiative is an important part of the Administration's
overall strategy to curb youth gun violence.  The Administration requests
consideration by the conferees of funding for the Violent Crime
Coordinator initiative that was not funded in the House bill. The U.S.
Attorneys have requested additional ATF support for bringing cases
involving violent criminals to the Department of Justice for prosecution.

U.S. Secret Service

        The Administration appreciates the SenateD,s attempt to provide
$13 million to Secret Service travel needs.  However, the Senate-passed
bill would effectively undermine other Secret Service funding needs,
resulting in a probable deterioration of critical equipment and an
undermining of the Service staffing needed to provide for the protection
of the President and foreign dignitaries. The House bill does not
redirect funds in this way, and the Administration urges the conferees to
adopt the House position.

Interagency Crime and Drug Enforcement

        The Administration objects to the SenateD,s $30.9 million
reduction to the request for Interagency Crime and Drug Enforcement.
These resources are needed for continuation of interagency investigations
to target, investigate, and prosecute criminals associated with high-level
illegal drug trafficking enterprises.  The transfer of these funds to
other activities in the Senate bill would eliminate funding for ongoing
investigations and weaken Treasury's ability to target resources to high
priority investigations.

Law Enforcement Vehicles


        The Administration objects to the SenateD,s elimination of funding
for Treasury law enforcement vehicle replacement. Replacement funds are
important from a public safety perspective, as aging vehicles present a
greater risk to the lives of both Treasury personnel and the public.  We
urge the conferees to adopt the House position on this issue.

Federal Law Enforcement Training Center

        The Administration urges the conferees to adopt the funding level
for the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) proposed by the
President and in the House bill.  In particular, the conferees are urged
to fund the AdministrationD,s request for $32.5 million for FLETCD,s
acquisition and construction, rather than providing transfer authority for
$20.3 million as provided for in the Senate bill. This funding is needed
to help FLETC absorb the increased law enforcement training needs of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Bureau of Indian Affairs.

Executive Residence

        The Administration urges the conferees to provide the full amount
requested for the Executive Residence as provided in the Senate bill,
without restriction.  Reduced or restricted funding for domestic staff
overtime would be harmful to the three-fold mission of the Executive
Residence as the home of the President, museum of our American heritage,
and the site of official and ceremonial activities of the Presidency.

Health Care Task Force

        The Administration strongly urges the conferees to strike House
language that would finance the costs of fines associated with the Health
Care Task Force litigation only from the White House Office of Salaries
and Expenses account.

Unanticipated Needs

        Both the House and Senate-passed bills fail to provide the
requested $1 million to enable the President to meet unanticipated needs
in furtherance of the national interest, security, or defense.  The
Administration urges the conferees to include this amount to ensure that
the President has the same ability to meet such needs as previous
Presidents have had.

Pay Raise for Federal Judges and Senior Executives

        The Administration is disappointed that both the House and Senate
bills include a proposal to eliminate the 1999 pay raise for Federal
judges and employees paid under the Executive Schedule.  Failure to
provide pay raises for senior executives is eroding the value of their pay
and causing severe pay compression in the executive ranks.  Pay
adjustments have been made for such individuals only once in the last five
years.  If continued, this failure will affect the Government's ability to
attract and retain the executive talent that it needs.  We urge the
conferees to restore the pay raise for Federal judges and employees paid
under the Executive Schedule.

Federal Employee Pay Raise

        The Administration supports, and urges enactment of, the provision in the
Senate-passed bill that would provide a total pay increase of 3.6 percent
for Federal white-collar employees. This increase, which would


essentially allow Federal pay to match the growth in private sector wages,
recognizes Federal employees for their higher productivity and their
essential contribution to a Federal Government that now operates more
efficiently and better serves the American people. We urge the conferees
to consider technical changes to the legislation provided by the Office of
Personnel Management.

Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP)

         The Administration appreciates the support that both the House and
the Senate have provided for drug control efforts in general, and for
ONDCP in particular. The Administration encourages the conferees to
provide the full amount requested for ONDCP's Special Forfeiture Fund,
especially the national youth anti-drug media campaign. The conferees
could fully fund the budget request for the media campaign by reducing
amounts earmarked for unrequested ONDCP programs.   The Administration
opposes Senate-passed bill language that would place unnecessary
restrictions and limitations on the expenditure of funds for the media
campaign.

Federal Buildings Fund

        Neither the House nor the Senate has provided the $14 million
requested for the design of a new Department of Transportation (DOT)
headquarters.  Instead, GSA is directed to enter into a lease
transaction. The Administration requests that the conferees provide
funding for the design of a new DOT headquarters.  Providing for a
Government-owned building would save taxpayers approximately $190 million,
in present value terms, compared to the cost of entering into a lease.

         The House- and Senate-passed bills would delay until September 30,
1999, the availability of funding for the repair and alterations program,
rental of space program, and building operations program. The
Administration is concerned that a delay in obligations would impede
GSAO,s ability to operate and maintain Federal facilities under its
control.

        The Administration is concerned that the House- and Senate-passed
bills provide over $500 million for 15 unrequested Federal courthouse
construction projects.

Morris K. Udall Foundation

        The Administration is concerned about the lack of funding for the
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental
Policy Foundation, particularly the lack of funding in the Senate-passed
bill for the U.S. Institute for Environmental Conflict Resolution, as
authorized in PL 105-156. The Administration believes that the Institute
would provide valuable assessment, mediation, and training services to
Federal agencies to resolve environmental disputes, thus reducing expenses
due to lengthy litigation costs. We urge the conferees to adopt the House
position of full funding of $4.25 million for the U.S. Institute for
Environmental Conflict Resolution.

United States Postal Service

        The Administration is concerned about the provisions in the House-passed
bill aimed at limiting the activities of the Postal Service.  An
appropriations bill should not be used to legislate restrictions on Postal
Service operations, or to hamper the Postal Service from performing its


legitimate and necessary role in international postal matters.

Language Provisions

 The Administration strongly objects to section 117 of the Senate-passed
bill. This provision would undermine the authority of the President to
use assets of countries under economic sanctions as leverage in efforts to
normalize relations with or to modify the behavior of those foreign
states.  Such a measure is strongly opposed and would likely give
preference to certain u.S. claimants over longstanding, legitimate claims
by other u.s. citizens, and result in an erosion of the AdministrationD,s
ability to protect the interests of the United States in the u.S. courts.

 The Administration objects to language in the Senate-passed bill tying
obligation of funds for Customs automation modernization improvements to
GAO certification to Congress that measures have been established "to
enforce compliance with the architecture." The Administration has no
control over the nature or timing of any prospective GAO review and
certification. Moreover, the Department of Justice advises that making
the availability of funds contingent upon GAO action is unconstitutional
under the Supreme CourtD,s decisions in Synar vs. Bowsher and INS vs.
Chadha.

 The Administration is concerned that section 115 of the Senate-passed
billD,s Treasury General Provisions could limit the Secretary's discretion
in determining how best to stimulate increased electronic tax filing,
which reduces IRS errors, permits more timely refunds to taxpayers, and
lowers IRS tax processing costs.

 The Administration supports the Joint Financial Management Improvement
Program and urges the conferees to include language in Title VI that was
included in the House Committee-reported version of the bill that would
provide up to $3 million from Government-wide credit card rebates in
support of that program.

 The Administration urges the conferees to adopt the version of
reprogramming language included in the House Committee Report.

 The Administration opposes the provision in the Senate-passed bill
requiring "family impact" assessments for Federal regulations and
policies. While the provision pursues laudable goals, it would unduly
interfere with agency rule-making and would be virtually impossible to
implement due to its vague language.

 with regard to the firefighter pay reform provision, the Administration
has no objection an effective date of October 1, 1998.

Federal Employees Health Benefits Program

        The Administration strongly opposes the provisions of both the
House- and Senate-passed bills that would restrict Federal Employees
Health Benefits Program (FEHBP) coverage for abortions.   The House-passed
version is particularly onerous in that it does not even retain current
law exceptions for situations where the life of the mother is endangered
or where the pregnancy is the result of rape or incest.   While the
President believes that abortion should be safe, legal, and rare, Federal
employees and their families should not be precluded from choosing to
purchase health insurance policies with broader coverage.

       The Administration supports the provisions of the House- and


senate-passed bills that require coverage of prescription contraceptives
by health plans participating in the Federal Employees Health Benefits
Program (FEHBP). The Administration prefers the Senate provision to the
House-passed version because the Senate language not only exempts five
specifically named religious plans but also exempts any other existing or
future religiously-based plans.

Strategic Petroleum Reserve

        The Administration does not support the Senate-passed provision
that would provide an emergency supplemental of $420 million for purchase
of oil for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.  The provision would require a
determination by the President that an emergency exists as a result of
market conditions that are imperiling domestic oil production from
marginal and small producers. Although low prices and oversupply appear
to be having an effect on domestic oil production, current market
conditions are unlikely to qualify as an emergency under the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended.  However, we
will continue to track market conditions on an ongoing basis.   If such an
emergency develops, an emergency supplemental could be requested under
current law.

        We look forward to working with the Committee to address our
mutual concerns.

                                               Sincerely,




                                               Jacob J. Lew
                                               Director


