RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Julie A. Fernandes ( CN=Julie A. Fernandes/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD ) )

CREATION DATE/TIME:21-SEP-1998 18:08:18.00

SUBJECT:   Liberians

TO: Maria Echaveste ( CN=Maria Echaveste/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO)
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ) )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Marjorie Tarmey ( CN=Marjorie Tarmey/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO)    )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP   [ WHO)
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
According to Scott Busby, there was renewed violence in Liberia over the
week-end (200 dead; lots injured; indications of political instability)
that has caused the State Dept. to re-think their objection to
recommending an extension of temporary protected status (TPS) for 8,000
Liberians in this country who fled their civil war.

As you recall, State wanted to provide some sort of relief from
deportation for these 8,000 Liberians (their TPS expires at the end of
Sept.), but did not recommend an extension of TPS b/c they had recently
(last March) made a recommendation to the AG that she not extend TPS --
they didn't want to change their conclusion about the stability of the
country without the occurance of an intervening act that could be used to
justify the change.  They were also concerned that a conclusion that the
country is unstable would be inconsistent with our continued support for
the repatriation of 480,000 Liberians from other parts of Africa.

with this renewed violence, State may change their recommendation.
Nothing is yet final, but if the State Dept. ' makes the recommendation to
extend TPS, the AG will likley do it, at least for the next 6 months.
That will temporarily relieve the pressure from the advocates for the
Pres. to grant DED for this population.  I will keep you posted.

julie


