RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Kate P. Donovan ( CN=Kate P. Donovan/OU=OMB/o=EOP [ OMB 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:23-SEP-1998 19:49:43.00

SUBJECT:   S. 2176 - Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998

TO: Lisa zweig ( CN=Lisa Zweig/OU=OMB/o=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHOlo=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Robert N. Weiner ( CN=Robert N. Weiner/oU=WHOlo=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Bob J. Nash ( CN=Bob J. Nash/OU=WHOlo=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Kevin S. Moran ( CN=Kevin S. Moran/OU=WHOlo=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Jessica L. Gibson ( CN=Jessica L. Gibson/OU=WHOlo=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: 'Janelle E. Erickson ( CN=Janelle E. EricksonjOU=WHOlo=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Michelle Crisci ( CN=Michelle CrisciIOu=WHOIO=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/ou=OPD/O=EOP@EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Dorian V. Weaver ( CN=Dorian V. Weaver/OU=WHOlo=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: John Podesta ( CN=John podesta/OU=WHOlo=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: G. E. DeSeve ( CN=G. E. DeSeveIOU=OMB/o=EOP@EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Tracey E. Thornton ( CN=Tracey E. Thornton/OU=WHOlo=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Roger S. Ballentine ( CN=Roger S. BallentineIOU=WHOlo=EOP@EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Below is the draft SAP for S. 2176 - Federal Vacancies Reform Act of
1998. The SAP reiterates the position released in the 7/28/98 Bowles
letter: Senior Advisers would recommend veto (please call me @5-9136 if
you need a copy). The Senate is expected to hold a cloture vote on the
motion to proceed to the bill tomorrow morning (Thurs. @9:30am).  We aim
to get the SAP to the Hill later in the morning.  Please provide
comments/clearance by 11:00am. Thank you.

DRAFT - NOT FOR RELEASE


September 23, 1998
(Senate)

S. 2176 - Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998
(Sen. Thompson (R) TN and 6 cosponsors)

The Administration cannot support S. 2176 as reported by the Senate
Governmental Affairs Committee.  If the bill is not amended to address the
Administration's concerns, the President's senior advisers would recommend
that he veto the bill.  S. 2176 would revise the process set forth in the
Vacancies Act for filling vacancies in positions that are subject to
Presidential appointment and Senate confirmation.

Making the Vacancies Act the exclusive governing statute for appointing
acting officers, as S. 2176 does, would largely address the concerns that
Senators have raised.  S. 2176, however, goes well beyond that, and in
doing so, threatens the ability of the Executive branch to fulfill its
statutory and constitutional obligations.   This threat arises, in
particular, because the bill would:   (1) too narrowly limit who can serve
in an "acting" capacity; (2) provide no safety valve for instances in
which the bill might interfere with critical duties pertaining to national
security, criminal law enforcement, public health and safety, the
stability of financial markets, and the oversight of financial
institutions; and (3) provide insufficient time to fill positions,
especially at the beginning of an Administration.

The Administration understands the Senate's genuine interest in passing
legislation in this area and would be willing to support a fair and
workable bill.  It is troubling, however, that the Senate would so
severely restrict the Administration's ability to fill vacant positions
and do the people's business while at the same time confirming the
President's nominees at an astonishingly slow pace. The Administration
simply cannot support a bill that would have such a severe and damaging
impact on the Government's ability to function.

*    *   *   *   *   *   * *   * *
    (Do Not Distribute Outside Executive Office of the President)

This Statement of Administration Policy (SAP) was developed by the
Legislative Reference Division (Elmore).  White House Counsel (weiner) and
white House Legislative Affairs (Ballentine) concur with the position.
VAPD (Kogut) and the White House Executive Clerk (Saunders) have no
objection. Deputy Director for Management (DeSeve) has no comment.

The Department of Veterans Affairs (Hall) concurs with this position.   The
following agencies have no objection: the Departments of Justice (Jones),
the Treasury (Dorsey), Commerce (Dowell), and the Office of Personnel
Management (Wolf), and the Agency for International Development (Miller).
The following agencies have no comment:  the Departments of Agriculture
(Julie) and the Interior (Schwartz), the Corporation for National and
Community Service (Sofer), Environmental Protection Agency (Schneider),
General Services Administration (Ratchford), National Aeronautics and
Space Administration (Jarrel), Office of National Drug Control Policy
(Rivait), Small Business Administration (Hontz), and Social Security
Administration (Chesser).

OMB/LA Clearance:

S. 2176 was introduced on June 16, 1998, and reported by the Senate


Governmental Affairs Committee on July 15, 1998.

Administration Position to Date

On July 28, 1998, the White House Chief of Staff transmitted a letter to
Senator Lott stating that the "Administration cannot support S. 2176 in
its present form.  If the bill is not amended to address the
Administration's concerns, the President's senior advisers would recommend
that he veto the bill." In addition, several agencies have responded to
questions from Senator Glenn regarding the bill's expected effects on
their respective agencies.   In these letters, the agencies have almost
uniformly expressed their strong opposition to the bill and have referred
to the senior advisers' veto threat in the Chief of Staff's letter. This
SAP is consistent with the position and concerns stated in the July 28th
letter.

Summary of S. 2176 (Based on the Committee Report)

S. 2176 would provide that upon the death, resignation, or inability of an
Executive agency officer to serve in a position requiring Presidential
appointment and Senate confirmation, the first assistant to the officer
would become the acting officer, for a period beginning on the date the
vacancy occurs and not to exceed 150 days.   (Currently, the acting officer
may serve for 120 days.)  As an alternative to this arrangement, the
President would be able to direct that a person who has already received
Senate confirmation could be made the acting officer in lieu of the first
assistant. The bill also would'require that a first assistant who has not
received Senate confirmation, but who is nominated to fill the office
permanently, could be made the acting officer only if he or she has been
the first assistant for at least 180 days in the year preceding the
vacancy.  If a first or second nominee were withdrawn, or rejected or
returned by the Senate, the acting official would be able to serve until
150 days after the withdrawal, rejection, or return of that nomination.

S. 2176 would apply to most vacancies in Senate-confirmed positions in
Executive agencies, but there would be a few exceptions.  First, those
laws that expressly provide that they supersede the Vacancies Act would do
so.  Second, current laws (numbering approximately 41) that provide for
the President or the head of an Executive department to designate an
officer to perform the functions and duties of a specified office in an
acting capacity would be maintained, as would those statutes that
themselves stipulate who shall serve in a specific office in an acting
capacity. Statutes that only generally permit agency heads to delegate or
reassign duties within their agencies would be specified not to constitute
statutes that provide for the temporary filling of particular offices.

S. 2176 contains an enforcement provision that would require that an
office be vacant if, 150 days after the vacancy arises, the President has
not submitted a nominee to the Senate.  In such cases, for offices other
than the heads of agencies, the functions and duties specifically to be
performed by the vacant office would be required to be performed only by
the agency head.  Such duties would include duties established by
regulation for the office during any part of the 180 days before the
vacancy occurred, notwithstanding subsequent regulations that purported to
limit those duties.  The sanction could be ended if the President were to
submit a nominee after the ISO-day period, at which time the acting
officer could resume service. Actions taken in violation of this vacant
office provision would have no effect and could not be ratified by anyone
else.


S. 2176 would extend for an additional 90 days the 1S0-day period for
submitting nominations for vacancies that exist when a new President
swears or affirms the oath of office as President or that arise in the 60
days thereafter.  In addition, the bill would maintain holdover provisions
in current law that apply to single-member independent agencies and would
exempt members of multi-member independent agencies altogether, as the
vacancies Act does currently.

The bill also would require the heads of Executive agencies to report to
the General Accounting Office the existence of vacancies, persons serving
in an acting capacity, the names of any nominees, and dates of disposition
of such nominees. The Comptroller General then would report to the
Congress, the President, and the Office of Personnel Management the
existence of any violations of the Vacancies Act.

S. 2176 would apply to any office that becomes vacant after the date of
enactment.  In addition, it would apply to offices that are vacant on the
date of enactment; however, the bill would apply to those offices as
though they first became vacant on the date of enactment.

Pay-As-You-Go Scoring

According to VAPD (Kogut), S. 2176 would not affect direct spending and
receipts; therefore, it is not subject to the pay-as-you-go requirement of
the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990.  CBO concurs.   .

LEGISLATIVE REFERENCE DIVISION DRAFT
September 23, 1998 - 6:36 p.m.


