RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL      (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Bruce·N. Reed ( CN;Bruce N. Reed/OU;OPD/O;EOP    [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:29-SEP-1998 14:21:18.00

SUBJECT:     settlement news

TO: Cynthia A. Rice    ( CN;Cynthia A. Rice/OU;OPD/O;EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN;Elena Kagan/OU;OPD/O;EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
September 28, 1998



HIGHLIGHTS

   1.Despite a second adverse ruling rejecting theindustryD,s motion for
dismissal in a labor union
     case, we believe the 75 - 80 labor, health, and welfare actions
outstanding are of insufficient
     risk to cause the tobacco companies to abandon efforts to settle the
46 remaining attorneys
     general actions, or scuttle plans to separate tobacco from
non-tobacco operations following
     the settlement.

   2.The Ohio IronworkersO, case, which came to investorsO, attention on
Friday although decided in
     mid-September, has emerged as the lead case in this litigation front,
much the same way the
     Mississippi Medicaid case became the lead AG case. u.S. Judge Gwin
has etched in stone
     the February 22, 1999 trial date, at which plaintiffs may seek $1
billion in total damages. The
     industry will ask the court to allow the 6th Circuit Court of Appeals
to review the rUling,
     and/or ask that the class action not be certified.

   3.To date, there have been 10 federal rulings and 2 state rulings on
motions by the industry to
     dismiss the labor unionsO, claims. Of the ten federal rulings, five
courts have dismissed the labor
     unionsO, claims outright, generally under the theory that the labor
unions are too far removed
     from their membersO, injuries and alleged torts. In two cases,
including the Ohio ironworker sO,
     case, the courts denied dismissal of all the claims. In the remaining
three actions, the majority
     of the claims were dismissed.

   4.While these labor union claims are similar to the AG cases in
structure 0* both seek
     'reimbursement of medical expenses for those with smoking related
injuries, there are important
      differences. One, labor union cases involve private parties, who can


pass through their costs
     through the collective bargaining process, or by charging higher
labor fees. Two, there are no
     political overtones attached to these labor union claims, which makes
it more acceptable for
     courts to dismiss the claims. Three, these claims have to be approved
as class actions,
     whereas the AG cases involved only one plaintiff 0* the state.

   5.Most of the labor union class action claims are now under the control
of Milberg Weiss, a
     large, well-known, San-Diego-based plaintiff D,s firm best known in
tobacco circles for its
     deceptive trade practices suit brought against RJR for its Joe Camel
advertising. That case
     was settled by RJR for $10 million. The vast majority of these cases
were brought in the
     Spring and Summer of 1997 to piggyback on what became the $368.5
billion national
     settlement accord unveiled on June 20, 1997.

   6.Key events: The industry is hoping for a knockout punch at the
federal appellate level that
     does to the labor union class actions what the Castano ruling did to
personal injury class
     actions. The 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals has agreed to hear the New
York LaborerD,s class
     action (dismissed partially, industry appealed) by year-end, with a
ruling expected by Spring,
     1999. We expect the 3rd Circuit to hear the Pennsylvania Steamfitters
case (appealed by
     plaintiffs) in early 1999, with a ruling by Summer, 1999.

   7.Settlement update: The timing of the new AG settlement is still
pegged by negotiators at late
     this week. On Wednesday, Philip Morris has a regularly scheduled
Board meeting, at which
     the tentative deal is to be presented. First drafts of the proposed
agreement have been
     circulated.to RJR and B&W; plaintiff negotiators are trying to get
advance buy-in from at least
     40 states. We have been told that the opt-in period for the AGs will
be far less than 30 days,
     and may be just 7 days from announcement.

INVESTMENT CONCLUSIONS

we reiterate outperform ratings on Philip Morris ($60 price target), RJR
Nabisco ($40), and
UST($40) Our view is that tobacco stocks will continue to run higher until
the new AG settlement is
announced, and then falloff somewhat as investors take profits and worry
about 40 states embracing
the accord. As we near the end of the opt in period, and investors
anticipate the resumption of Philip
Morris' buyback, UST's recap, and increased prospects for spin-offs,
tobacco valuations should
break out of recent trading ranges. If the AG settlement fails to come
together, we see 2-3%
downside at UST, 5% downside at MO, and 10% at RJR.



DETAILS

    1.Ohio IronworkersD, ruling: Aberration, or new opening on the
litigation front? On
      September 10, U.S. Judge James Gwin, a recent Clinton-appointee and
friend of VP Albert
      Gore, rejected all aspects of the tobacco industry's motion to
dismiss an Ohio class action of
      labor union recovery claims. This was only the second time in ten
rulings that a federal judge
      has rejected outright the industry's motion for dismissal in what
have become known as labor
      health and welfare actions, or labor union actions for short. The
other negative ruling was a
      1-page order rejecting the industryD,s motion to dismiss a labor
union class action in West
      Virginia, in August. We continue to perceive these claims as low
risk, but worth watching D*
      particularly as they relate to tobacco companiesD, intent to
restructure assets once there is an
      attorney generalsD, settlement in place. The risk, of course, is that
these claims may collectively
      become a new potentially debilitating front in the litigation war
requiring either resolution, or
      a paper trail of favorable rulings, before separations between
tobacco and non-tobacco
      operations can take· place.

      There are now 75-80 labor health and welfare claims outstanding
around the country. This
      compares to 42 state attorneys general actions (including 4 that have
already settled), about a
      dozen city and county recovery actions, and some 60 personal injury
class actions. Nearly all
      labor union claims were filed in the Spring and Summer of 19970nce it
became clear that the
      industry would enter into the historic $368.5 billion national
settlement unveiled last June 20.
      For reasons that we still donD,t fully understand, most of the labor
union claims were filed in
      federal court, which have generally been hostile toward both the AG
cases on which these
      labor union claims are based, and the state personal injury class
actions with which these new
      claims share a common thread. The vast majority of labor union cases
are structured as private
      party class actions for all of the labor unions in that state,
represented by 3 - 6 labor unions
      including a lead case from which each case derives its name. Each
labor union class action
      seeks damages spanning up to 40 years. Most of the claims have been
filed or are now under
      the control of Milberg Weiss, a large (120-lawyer) well-known,
San-Diego-based plaintiff D,s
      firm best known in tobacco circles for its deceptive trade practices
suit brought against RJR to
      stop the Joe Camel advertising campaign 0* which was settled by RJP.
for $10 million. In
      addition to 50 or so labor union class actions (one for each state),


there are now some 25
     single-fund actions (non class actions) in California, filed by one
prominent lawyer in the San
     Francisco Bay area, and which have now been consolidated in a single
California state court.
     In New York, there are approximately 12 single fund actions which
have been filed in New
     York state court. Collectively, these claims could run into the
hundreds of billions of dollars.

     To date, there have been 10 federal rulings and 2 state rulings on
motions by the industry to
     dismiss the labor unionsD, claims. Of the ten federal rulings, five
courts have dismissed the labor
     unionsD, claims in their entireties, generally under the theory that
the labor unions are too far
     removed from the injuries and torts alleged to have been committed.
In two cases, including
     the Ohio ironworkersD, case, the courts went the other way, and
denied dismissal of any of the
     claims. In the remaining three actions, most (all but 2-3) of the
claims were dismissed. Unlike
     the states in the Medicaid cases, which had no choice but to pay for
the injuries of its residents
     who were too poor, labor unions can raise union dues or work through
the collective
     bargaining process with management to offset the increased costs of
health care costs.

     While these labor union claims are similar to the AG cases in
structure 0* both seek
     reimbursement of medical expenses paid by the plaintiff for third
parties with smoking related
     injuries (state paid smoking-related medical costs for its im
poverished residents; labor union
     paid its members; medical bills) there are three major differences.
One, these labor union
     cases involve private parties, who can pass through their costs
through the collective
     bargaining process, or by charging higher union fees. Two, there are
no political overtones
     attached to these labor union claims, which are private actions,
which makes it more likely for
     courts to dismiss without political ramifications. Three, these
claims have to be approved as
     class actions brought by multiple labor unions, whereas the AG cases
involved only one
     plaintiff 0* the state.

     The Ohio case, which is known as the Ohio Ironworkers case, is now
perceived as the lead
     case, in much the same way as the Mississippi Medicaid case was
thought of as the lead AG
     case. The Ohio Ironworkers case is the first case likely to reach
trial. U.S. Judge Gwin, who
     rejected all aspects of the industryD,s motion for dismissal, has
been adamant that the trial date
     -- February 22, 1999 0* is etched in stone. The industry can now try
to get Judge Gwin to
     certify his decision to the 6th Circuit Court of Appeals, or wait


  until Gwin rules on whether the
       claims can proceed as a class. We believe the 6th Circuit would have
  a problem treating this
       claim as a class action, given their rejection of a penile implant
  class action (Vorhees) a few
       years back. What makes these cases tricky is whether the courts will
  view them as personal
       injury actions for classes of injured smokers 0* which makes class
. actions impractical 0* or
       recovery actions brought by the labor unions, which would make class
  certification easier. We
       also point out that the 2nd and 3rd u.s. Circuit Courts of Appeals,
  are each set to review one
       of these labor union cases by early next year, which could force the
  6th Circuit to at least
       review the Ohio case before its February 22 trial date. A definitive
  ruling by any of these
       federal appellate courts could have the same knockout effect as the
  1996 Castano ruling out
       of the 5th Circuit had on the personal injury class action front. At
  this juncture, we don't
       perceive these cases as obstacles to tobacco companies completing
  spin-offs, assuming there
       is an AG settlement endorsed by at least 40 states, and assuming the
  paper trail on personal
       injury class actions continues to build.

Labor Union Rulings - Federal courts

  #
       Date
               State
                       Name of case
                                  Fed. judge
                                               Ruling
                                                        Comments on ruling /
                                                           Next steps
  1
      3/25/98
            New York
                       New York
                       Laborers
                                   Scheindlin
                                            Partial
                                            dismissal
                                                    Denied dismissal of
                                                    RICO, fraud, breach of
                                                    duty claims. Dismissed
                                                    anti-trust, unjust
                                                    enrichment claims.
                                                    Appealed to 2nd Circuit
                                                    Court of Appeals; oral
                                                    arguments likely
                                                    December, 1998; ruling
                                                    early-1999.
  2
      4/13/98
            Florida
                       Southeast
                       Florida


                        Laborers
                                     Ryskamp
                                               Full
                                               dismissal
                                                       Dismissed claim in
                                                       entirety as too remote,
                                                       based at least in part on
                                                       Florida Supreme Court
                                                       ruling in Associated
                                                       Industries state AG
                                                       case (pre-1994 statute,
                                                       state had no direct
                                                       claim against tobacco
                                                       industry)
 3
     4/22/98
           Pennsylvania
                      Pennsylvania
                      Steamfitters
                                 Fullam
                                               Full
                                               dismissal
                                                       Dismissed claim in
                                                       entirety as too remote;
                                                       no oral arguments. Said
                                                       labor union could pass
                                                       through costs through
                                                       higher dues, collective
                                                       bargaining process.
                                                       Plaintiffs appealed to
                                                       3rd Circuit; ruling
                                                       early-1999.
 4
     4/30/98
           California
                        CA
                        Stationary
                        Engineers
                                     Jensen
                                               Partial
                                               dismissal
                                                       Denied negligence on
                                                       special duty claims, and
                                                       said plaintiffs could
                                                       replead fraud claim and
                                                       unfair trade practices
                                                       claim. Dismissed RICO,
                                                       anti-trust, unjust
                                                       enrichment, breach of
                                                       duty claims.
 5
     7/13/98
           Maryland
                        MD
                        SeafarerD,s
                        Welfare Plan
                                    Garbis
                                               Full
                                               dismissal
                                                       Dismissed claim in


                                                       entirety, noting both
                                                       Ryskamp and Fullam
                                                       rulings. Highly
                                                       respected federal judge
                                                       Plaintiffs abandoned
                                                       appeal, based on view
                                                       that 4th Circuit would
                                                       not be sympathetic.
 6
      8/3/98
                Oregon
                          Oregon
                          Laborers
                                       Marsh
                                                Full
                                                dismissal
                                                        Dismissed claim in
                                                        entirety 0* labor union
                                                        had no standing, claims
                                                        were too remote. Likely
                                                        to be appealed by
                                                        plaintiffs to 9th
Circuit,
                                                        which is perceived as
                                                        more liberal.
  7
      8/12/98
            West
            virginia
                          WVA
                          Laborers
                          Pension
                          Fund
                                       Hayden
                                                Denied
                                                dismissal
                                                        Denied industryD,s
                                                        entire motion for
                                                        dismissal in I-page
                                                        opinion. said that
                                                        industry could raise
                                                        issues.on motion for
                                                        summary judgment.
  8
       8/26/98
             New Jersey
                          New Jersey
                          Carpenters
                                       Barry
                                                Partial
                                                dismissal
                                                        Dismissed all but three
                                                        claims, but with caveat:
                                                        Plaintiff must show
                                                        fraud was directed at
                                                        labor unions
                                                        themselves, or may
                                                        dismiss on summary
                                                        judgment
  9


       8/30/98
             Texas
                           Texas
                           Carpenters
                                         Hertfield
                                                     Full
                                                     dismissal
                                                             Dismissed claim in
                                                             entiiety. Significant
                                                             since claim brought in
                                                             Beaumont, TX, known
                                                             for its "rocket docket".
                                                             Plaintiffs unlikely to
                                                             appeal to 5th Circuit.
  10
       9/10/98
             Ohio
                           Ohio
                           Ironworkers
                                         Gwin
                                                     Denied
                                                     dismissal
                                                             Denied industryD,s
                                                             entire motion. Recent
                                                             Clinton appointee;
                                                             thought to be close
                                                             friend of VP Goreu,s. In
                                                             opinion, didnC,t cite one
                                                             other LH&W case.
                                                             Becomes lead LH&W
                                                             case since first one to
                                                             go to trial - 2/22/99.
                                                             Industry will appeal to
                                                             6th Circuit.


State cases

  1
       6/30/98
                 California
                          Screen
                          Actors Guild
                                     Mitchell
                                                 Nearly
                                                 full
                                                 dismissal
                                                         Dismissed all claims except
                                                         CA Unfair trade practices
                                                         (Injunctive relief only)
  2
       7/31/98
                 California
                          Operating
                          Engineers
                                      Mitchell
                                                 Full
                                                 dismissal
                                                         Dismissed all claims. Both
                                                         claims single fund non-class


                      actions. Remaining 25 single
                      claims consolidated in state
                      court.


