RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL             (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Michael Cohen ( CN=Michael Cohen/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

C.KI:'.:ATION DATE/TliwiE:   6 -CCT-l'?98 18: 12: 44 _00

SUBJECT:     daily ed update

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Here's what I know:

1.  Literacy--passed the Senate; Goodling's staff says this will be
"packaged with other things in the House before it goes to the floor,
including national testing .. " We are not sure what this means, but
believe that Goodling may threaten to hold up literacy bill unless we cave
on testing. Goodling called Riley a little while ago--Riley is now trying
to call him back. Goodling staff say they do~'t know what the call is
about, but we presume its on this issue.   I'll get to one of you as soon
as I here from Riley about the conversation.

Last year when he did this (by cancelling the mark-up on the reading bill
because he was ticked.off that we were moving forward on testing) we
issued a statement saying that he was stopping everything that would help
kids read- tutors, teacher training, and reading standards and tests.


2. Charter Schools--being hotlined in the Senate this afternoon/evening.
Kennedy's staff is nervous that, because of lukewarm support from Dems, we
will see some amendments come out of the woodwork on this one. Daschle
apparantly has an amendment on fetal.alcohol syndrome that both Kennedy
and Coats staff are worried about. NEA staff continues to raise questions
about this, and both Kennedy staff and I have pushed back.

3. Class Size. --Last I've heard, as reported earlier today--Gephardt,
Obey, Frost are all for getting a victory here. Gephardt in particular has
told this to Riley, Erskine and Patty Murray.  Murray talked to Lew this
moring, and Jack agreed that we are supporting her effort.

Obey's staff reports that class size is very much on the table in the
discusssions among the principals; R's have not agreed to a final number
on Title 1 because they want to taken into account anything that might
happen on class size (We need to make sure we don't wind up in a situation
where the $490 million increase we asked for in Title 1 becomes our class
 size $--Riley and the education groups would rightfully see that as a
defeat, not a victory. Barbara Chow knows this).     Obey's staff also
'thinks that the R's will want to match any real $ we get for class size
with an increase in funding for their priorities, such as IDEA.

4. Voc. Ed.--House and Senate staff have been meeting on this today, but
I don't have any new information since this morning.


