RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Michael Cohen ( CN=Michael Cohen/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD ] )

CREATION DATE/TIME:11-0CT-1998 20:24:41.00

SUBJECT:   new report language

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ] )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD ] )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
We have not decided yet whether or not to include bracketed language.

Report Language
The Committee bill provides that the National Assessment Governing Board
retains exclusive authority over the policies, direction and guidelines
for voluntary national tests for 4th grade reading and 8th grade math.
The bill includes language prohibiting the use of funds to field test,
implement, or administer any federally sponsored national tests.   This
qualification is intended to preclude the use of funds for testing
activity that would enable comparisons of test results among school
districts [or that would yield individual student, school, school
district, or state scores].    [It is not intended to prevent NAGB from
continuing to develop test items and in so doing to take the steps
necessary to determine how well students will understand and interpret the
questions and if individual test questions are appropriate for the grade
level, measure the content they are supposed to measure, are too easy or
too difficult for the target population, assess the range of skills and
abilities of all students, and contain ethnic, racial or gender bias.]

The Committee bill also provides that the National Academy of Sciences
conduct a study to determine the knowledge and skills teachers must have
in order to prepare students effectively to meet the national standards as
measured by NAEPand the national test.   It also provides that the study
identify the most effective approaches to teacher preparation and
professional development to ensure that teachers possess the requisite
knowledge and skills. The Committee recognizes that students will not be
able to meet challenging standards or do well on any test that measures
them against challenging standards unless their teachers have the
knowledge, skills and preparation to teach them effectively.   Particularly
in high poverty schools and communities, students often do not have
teachers who are fully certified, or adequately prepared. This study is
intended to provide states, school districts, institutions of higher
education and teacher preparation programs with the information necessary
to provide students with the well-prepared teachers they need.


