RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Christopher C. Jennings    ( CN=Christopher C. Jennings/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 16-0CT-1998 01:53:22.00

SUBJECT:   home health care fix

TO: Daniel N. Mendelson ( CN=Daniel N. Mendelson/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Janet Murguia    ( CN=Janet Murguia/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Jacob J. Lew ( CN=Jacob J. Lew/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: John Podesta ( CN=John Podesta/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Charles M. Brain ( CN=Charles M. Brain/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Sylvia M. Mathews   ( CN=Sylvia M. Mathews/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Lawrence J. Stein ( CN=Lawrence J. Stein/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Gene B. Sperling ( CN=Gene B. Sperling/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Maria Echaveste ( CN=Maria Echaveste/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Erskine B. Bowles ( CN=Erskine B. Bowles/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Mindy E. Myers   ( CN=Mindy E. Myers/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Ron E Blankenship ( CN=Ron E Blankenship/O=EOP [ UNKNOWN 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Dawn L. Smalls ( CN=Dawn L. Smalls/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

cc: Sandra L. Via ( CN=Sandra L. Via/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Jessica L. Gibson ( CN=Jessica L. Gibson/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )


READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Kevin S. Moran ( CN=Kevin S. Moran/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

Jeanne Lambrew ( CN=Jeanne Lambrew/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

Sarah A. Bianchi ( CN=Sarah A. Bianchi/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Last night (Thursday), the Congressional Republicans, on a bicameral
basis, agreed on a compromise proposal designed to address concerns about
the impact of BBA home health reimbursement reforms on the industry.  They
are asking that we agree to expedite review.of their proposal, support it,
and agree to place it on the omnibus spending bill.  We need to develop
our response to their proposal as soon as possible (sometime early today),
so that we cannot be blamed for holding up or killing an extremely popular
health policy initiative.

Background. Responding to the home health care industry has been the
number one health care priority of numerous Members of Congress. Without
question, the White House, OMB and HHS has received more direct inquiries
from Members of Congress on this issue than any other health care issue
including the Patients' Bill of Rights. Democrats have been even more
agressive about addressing this problem than have Republicans.  In
addition, besides a massive campaign by the home health care industry, the
aging advocates are starting to raise concerns about potential access
problems to beneficiaries.  In short, the Congress feels great pressure to
act and members of both parties want it "fixed" before they leave town.

Last week, over 400 House Members voted out a Ways and Means Committee
proposal that, by any definition, was severely flawed policy and included
severely problematic financing.    It used as its sole offset for the $2
billion policy fix to raise the BBA-set income limits on Roth IRA
rollovers.     Although this proposal paid for the 5-year, $2 billion cost,
it lost over $10 billion in the second 5 years (as more higher income
individuals were assumed to benefit from the tax-free treatment of future
withdrawals. )

The Senate Finance Committee -- on a bipartisan basis -- agreed on an
alternative home health package that was better policy, dropped the Roth
IRA financing mechanism, and used more palatable savings proposals.   (It
did have a $300 million paygo problem, however.)  At any rate, despite
trying to bring this bill up to try to initiate a joint House/Senate
conference, Senator Gramm (and perhaps others) objected to bringing the
bill up under a U.C. agreement. As a result, the Senate Republican
Leadership grew increasingly frustrated that they were going to be blamed
for letting this die on their footsteps.

In response, Lott ordered his Republican Finance Committee Members
yesterday to work out an agreement with the House Republicans (Thomas and
Bilirakis).  It was (and apparently still is) his hope to work with the
White House to place their work product on the omnibus spending bill. At
worst, he wants to be able to blame the White House for opposing a viable
option that has every potential to gain large support from the home health
agencies and advocates, as well as many Democratic Members of Congress.

The Republican Alternative.   The alternative the Republicans produced last


night is administratively workable and generally defensible home health
policy.  It delays by one year the implementation of the new prospective
payment system and its 15 percent payment cut, and it helps address
geographic disparities that have been viewed as unfair.  The proposal's
major problem relates to its reliance on a three-part financing mechanism,
particularly those two dealing with revenue raisers.  The first and most
acceptable financing source is as-year, $900 million cut in the out-year
payments for home health care.  Second, the Republicans propose to include
a version of the McCreary gambling provision, which reportedly raises$250
million by modifying the tax treatment of prizes and awards.   (Although
this proposal has some notable bipartisan support, it is flawed because it
is a revenue loser in the second 5 years.)  And finally, and most
controversial, is their proposal to reinstate a modified (and more modest)
Roth IRA 5-year $500 million proposal.

On a policy basis, theTreasury Department, OMB, NEC, DPC and others
continue to strongly oppose the Roth IRA provision.  Not only does it
violate last year's carefully constructed BBA compromise,  it loses
revenue in the out-years, it benefits only the wealthy, and sets a likely
and unstopable precedence for future modifications to the BBA Roth IRA
agreement.

It is important to point out, however, that unlike the original House
proposal, the newest Republican Roth IRA alternative does not lose any
revenue until the 7th year and over 10 years appears to lose about only 10
percent of the original proposal -- about $1.7 billion.   This revenue loss
is offset by the out year savings associated with the home health payment
cut, leaving the proposal budget neutral over 10 years.   (After 10 years,
the proposal almost inevitably will not be budget neutral.)

Democrats Reaction to Republican Proposal.   Not surprisingly, the
Democratic Leadership and Committees, who were completely excluded from
the development of the Republican alternative, do not support the
Republican alternative. They -- like us -- have particular problems with
the Roth IRA provision. The do believe, however, that we must produce an
viable alternative if we explicitly oppose the Republican proposal.   As
such, we developed one last evening that retains the Republicans' home
health policy. However, it also drops the two Republican revenue raisers
and substitutes a 100,000 participant cap on the Medicare Medical Savings
Account (MSA) demonstration.   (This raises about $800 million over 5
years.)  We talked about other options, but the offsets were either
politically unrealistic or too small to deal with the problem.

Potential Political Problem with Democratic Alternative. Although the
Democratic Leadership supports the alternative we developed last night,
they cannot and would not give any commitment that even a majority of
Democrats would be supportive of this effort.   (This is a particular
problem in the House.)   Many of their rank and file members truly do not
want to leave town without a home health care fix and they might well
support the Republican 'alternative for two reasons.  First, they may well
not particularly mind the downsized Roth IRA provision; it will look to
them that it is much more modest than what they previously supported and
it raises money for home health care by "lowering" taxes.   Second, they
and their home health care validators may conclude that our alternative
although more fiscally responsible -- is not viable politically and is
simply political cover for a policy that can never pass.   As a
consequence, the President -- (who has said he would like to address the
home health care concerns) -- could be blamed by members of our own party
and certainly the home health care community for not responding to an
"urgent health care crisis."



      Options/Dilemas.  Because of the Democratic interest in being proactive on
      home health care (and the Republicans' desire to blame us for not
      producing), we need to move quickly to develop our strategy to respond to
      the Republican proposal.  It appears likely that we will not want to
      immediately accept the Republican alternative. We certainly could counter
      with the Democratic "MSA" proposal we developed last night. However, we
      should recognize it will likely be rejected as unrealistic and partisan.
      Any subsequent discussion (that is viewed as credible and sincere) might
      well lead to something close to what the Republicans want.   (This is
      because the potential Democratic and home health care support they may
      attract may well give them more leverage than us to advocate for a final
      agreement.)  Conversely, if we do not engage with them on this issue at
      all, it may be all the more easy for them to label us as the "terminators"
      of the "desperately needed" home health care fix.

      As always, however, time may be on our side.  One option could be to offer
      our alternative and start a negotiating process that we commit to staying
      at until we can work out an acceptable agreement.  The downsides of this
      approach are that omnibus spending bill would probably not be viable and
      virtually anyone could kill it on almost any other conceivable legislative
      vehicle.

      Sorry I offer no easy solutions.   Hope this background is helpful.   We
      await your guidance. Thank you.
.,

