    RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (NOTES MAIL)

    CREATOR: Diana Fortuna ( CN=Diana Fortuna/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

    CREATION DATE/TIME: 24-FEB-1997 18:28:27.00

    SUBJECT:     Some info from HHS on existing workfare programs and minimum wage

    TO: Kenneth S. Apfel ( CN=Kenneth S. Apfel/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB 1 )
    READ: UNKNOWN

    TO: Stacy L. Dean ( CN=Stacy L. Dean/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB 1 )
    READ: UNKNOWN

    TO: Elena Kagan { CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
    READ: UNKNOWN

    TEXT:
    First message is my response to the second message, which is a bit
    confusing.

    ---------------------- Forwarded by Diana Fortuna/OPD/EOP on 02/24/97
    06:29 PM ---------------------------




    Diana Fortuna
    02/24/97 06:29:07 PM
    Record Type:    Record

    To:      mpugh @ acf.dhhs.gov @ INET @ LNGTWY
    cc:
    bcc:     Records Management
    Subject:         Re: CWEP, AWEP, waivers

    Thanks for your helpful email.

    Our basic question is to what extent have states already been paying
    minimum wage.   So we wilt be interested to look at the size of AWEP
    programs that didn't pay minimum wage.   Is there a way to separate non-mw
    AWEP program from mw AWEP programs?

    On waivers, I understand your point that waivers either simply folded in
    AWEP/CWEP, or else they included private sector/ wage supplementation
    which was always paid at minimum wage.

    Our goal would be to say something like "x% of state workfare programs
    already pay minimum wage", where x% is fairly high. And if x% isn't that
    high, that would be very useful to know that we are changing the rules on
    the states.




               mpugh @ acf.dhhs.gov


        02/24/97 05:30:00 PM
Record Type: Record

To: Diana Fortuna
cc:
Subject: CWEP, AWEP, waivers

Diana -- I'll give you a calIon this but wanted to send it in writing as
well ...

In answer to your question about how many states have been running CWEP
and
AWEP programs under JOBS, according to the most recent data (JOBS
1995-1996
characteristics book) :

* 32 states have CWEP programs, which are exempt from FLSA but not from
the
minimum wage (participants cannot work more hours than their check will
cover
at $4.75/hr)

* 41 have AWEP programs, which HHS interpreted as sharing CWEP's FLSA
exemption. The tricky thing is that AWEP allows flexibility in hours (so
that
employees work a consistent number from month to month regardless of
fluctuations in the welfare check) .

* There isn't a helpful way to answer your third question, which I
understand
was how many state waivers were silent on the min wage issue or did not
meet
mw.  CWEP and AWEP (created under JOBS) provided states with all of the
flexibility they needed in this area, so when they asked for waivers it
was for
provisions other than wages/hours in these "public" work activities.
Usually
it was for other things, like extending the amount of time people could be
on
work supp, or broadening eligibility standards and income disregards.
States
often incorporated their CWEP and AWEP activities under the "statewide
welfare
reform" umbrella, but you won't find things in the CWEP/AWEP area that
they
couldn't ,have done anyway without a waiver. (Work supp and the subsidized
private sector stuff was different, but those types of things never had a
FLSA
exemption and always had to pay min wage) .

I am sending both of you a chunky fax full of helpful (I promise)
information
 (like which states have been doing this and how large a %age of their
caseload
was in), States don't have to tell us too much about what they are going
to do
under TANF, so our info is spotty in this area.   We have indications that
many
will continue with current arrangements, simply expanding them.


 Hope this is what you need.   If it isn't, call me   Margaret 401-6944




 ==================== ATTACHMENT   1 ====================
 ATT CREATION TIME/DATE:   0 00:00:00.00

 TEXT:
 RFC-822-headers:
 Received: from storm.eop.gov (storm.eop.gov)
  by PMDF.EOP.GOV (PMDF VS.0-4 #6879) id <01IFSW88VXE800KHNX@PMDF.EOP.GOV> for
  fortuna_d@al.eop.gov; Mon, 24 Feb 1997 17:30:47 -OSOO (EST)
 Received: from smtp.acf.dhhs.gov by STORM.EOP.GOV (PMDF VS.0-7 #6879)
  id <01IFSWSGN48G00004S@STORM.EOP.GOV> for fortuna_d@a1.eop.gov; Mon,
  24 Feb 1997 17:30:40 -0700 (MST)
 Received: by smtp.acf.dhhs.gov; Mon, 24 Feb 1997 17:28:16 -OSOO (EST)
 Date: Mon, 24 Feb 97 17:28:14 nA
 X-Priority: 3 (Normal)
 ================== END ATTACHMENT   1 ==================


