RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP [OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 3-NOV-1998 16:08:33.00

SUBJECT:     State settlement next week

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP   ~   EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP     ~   EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:·
October 30, 1998



HIGHLIGHTS

   1.The new AG settlement should be announced the week of November 9; we
expect
     substantially all states to embrace the deal. Timing is now probably
firm to ensure that AGs
     leaving office -- Lungren (CA) , Harshbarger (MA) -- can embrace the
deal before their terms
     end. We expect UST to be included in the deal, but make no ongoing
payments, and only
     nominal upfront payments.

   2.Tobacco stocks are likely to move higher going into the settlement as
investors begin to
     discount value-unlocking events after the deal is enacted. We expect
aggressive buybacks at
     Philip Morris and UST; a new proxy fight at RJR; speculation about
spinoffs at MO, RN, and
     LTR; and consolidation throughout the industry (BAT links up with RJR
Int'l; MO or LTR
     merges with UST) .

    3.Next week's elections should be a non-event, but two low-probability
outcomes could move
      stocks: 1) If Republicans gain 5 seats in the Senate, they obtain a
filibuster proof majority,
      which may lead to speculation about sweeping tort reform; 2) If
Democrats gain 11 seats in
      the House, they will reclaim the majority, and investors will worry
about new anti-tobacco
      legislation next year. We expect Proposition 10 in California (to
raise cigarette excise taxes
      from $.37 to $.87/pack) to pass easily, but not affect valuations;
other states have enacted big
      excise tax increases with no impact on stocks, given increased
cross-border selling.

   4.If the industry loses Phase I of Engle, and assuming there is a new
AG settlement, we could
     see the industry settle the Engle class action for a nominal amount.
While such a move would


     send the wrong message to the unpaid Castano class counsel, settling
Engle may be the only
     way to convince outside legal counsel to opine that spinoffs don't
carry fraudulent conveyance
     risks.

   5.RJR's stock remains a good trade vs. Philip Morris, given 45-50%
upside at RN but only
     15-20% upside at MO if both are accorded sum of the parts valuations,
assuming tobacco
     stubs take on the same valuation as the parent pre-spinoff -- which
occurred with BAT. Our
     problem with RJR is that the international tobacco business is still
in shambles, and domestic
     premium volumes are hemorrhaging. Yesterday, Philip Morris increased
its 4Q buydown on
     Marlboro to $3.00/carton, from $2.50/carton.

   6.Smokeless discount leader Swedish Match (40% share of discount
market, UST 8% discount
     market) has taken half of UST's $.20/can price increase on Red Seal.
We expect #2 discount
     maker Swisher (37% share of discounts) and #3 Conwood (15% share of
discounts) to match
     this $.10 hike on single cans. Everyone has followed UST's $.10/can
price hike on premium
     brands.

   7.We reiterate outperform ratings on Philip Morris, RJR, and UST.

DETAILS

   I.Deal timing now set for the week after the election. Our sources say
the new AG deal
     will likely be announced the week of November 9. Provisions will be
along the lines previously
     outlined (payments for remaining states $180 billion, marketing
restrictions that go modestly
      further than Minnesota, renegade multiplier 3x with incentives for
states to enact legislation to
      limit renegade penetration). The upfront payment is said to be $10
billion, with $5 billion due
     over the first 14-16 months. We expect a separate deal for smokeless
makers that restricts
     marketing, requires no ongoing payments, and only a nominal upfront
payment.

     The timing of the deal seems fairly firm, because the tenure of
several AGs -- Dan Lungren in
     California, Scott Harshbarger in MA, who are both running for
governor next week and will
     likely lose -- ends December 31. We believe that lame duck AGs will
want to take credit for
     the state Medicaid lawsuits they started, rather than have someone
else get the credit for
     settlements or awards if their case makes it to trial. We believe
virtually all of the remaining 47
     states (includes Puerto Rico) will embrace the deal by the end of the
opt-in period, which is
     likely to be set 14 days after the deal is announced.



    2.Value unlocking actions to begin after deal. Following completion of
the deal, we expect
      Philip Morris to resume its $8 billion buyback ($4 billion in 1999),
and UST to announce its
      recap ($1 billion over 3-4 years). Speculation will build that all
companies will separate
      tobacco from non-tobacco operations in early-1999, given the
favorable paper trail on class
      actions (includes NJ class ruling on Monday). We expect one or more
financiers to file proxy
      slates by end of November to replace RJR management as an insurance
policy in case
      management gets cold feet about spinning off Nabisco following the AG
deal. We expect
      Philip Morris to announce their intent to separate tobacco from
non-tobacco before RJR,
      given almost zero odds that plaintiff counsel could convince a court
that Philip Morris is not
      able to satisfy its existing or unmatured obligations (all debt
likely to be placed on Kraft, PM
      has never lost a case, can show that pricing can be taken to offset
judgments). In a
      non-bankruptcy situation, we cannot find a single instance where a
court has blocked a
      company from spinning off assets when there are no judgments against
it.

   3.Consolidation of the global tobacco industry. Post spinoffs, we
expect to see
     consolidation sweep the global tobacco industry. Our predictions are
that BAT will merge with
     RJR International, and that Philip Morris or Loews will acquire UST.
The proposed merger
     transaction between Hilton and Grand Casino -- a so-called "Morris
trust" that involves the
     tax-free spinoff and simultaneous merger of both companies' casino
interests -- may become
     the model that both enables spinoffs and triggers this consolidation
wave. The mechanics of
     such a tax-free transaction might be as follows: Loews spins off
Lorillard tax-free, UST spins
     off its wine business tax free, Lorillard buys UST in a
stock-for-stock deal, Lorillard winds up
     with controlling interest.

   4.Rather than wait on spinoffs, industry could settle Engle if they
lose Phase I. While it
     pains us to say this, and the industry adamantly denies it, if the
industry loses Phase I of the
     Engle trial, we would not be surprised to see the industry settle
with the Rosenblatts in Engle.
     We would envision some nominal amount ($300 - $500 million) that
would go for cancer
     research or education -- similar to Broin. Let us be clear: Engle
would be settled only if: 1)
     there is a new AG settlement, and 2) if the industry loses the Engle
Phase I trial. With other
     class actions eliminated by the courts, and the AG suits settled, the
$200 billion Engle claim


     would remain as the only legitimate obstacle to separating tobacco
from non-tobacco
     operations. Rather than wait 6-12 months for the Florida Supreme
Court to decertify Engle,
     and have some other roadblock to spin-offs emerge (Ohio Labor Union
trial in February, for
     example), the industry may simply bite the bullet and payoff the
Rosenblatts -- again. While
     settling Engle would clearly send the wrong signal to other plaintiff
counsel, outside legal
     counsel may be reluctant to provide legal opinions to company Boards,
which would be
     needed to proceed with spinoffs, that fraudulent conveyance risks are
minimal.

   5.RJR likely to close valuation gap vs. Philip Morris. Since the McCain
bill was defeated,
     RJR has not kept up with other tobacco stocks (since 6/16, MO +41~
relative, UST +33~,
     RN +8~). We believe that at least one financial buyer will file a
proxy slate prior to the
     November 26 deadline for next year's proxy vote (deadline 150 days
from anniversary of last
     year's proxy statement filing). On sum of the parts, RJR is worth
$43, assuming the market
     attaches the same multiple to the tobacco stub that it attaches to
the parent today. This
     valuation extrapolation occurred when BAT was demerged -- BAT tobacco
stub trades at
     same 65~ relative multiple to the FTSE at which old BAT traded. On
this basis, we estimate
     that Philip Morris is worth $61 (+17~), and RJR is worth. $43 (+50~).
Our concern about
     RJR is that all three of its businesses are in trouble. In domestic
tobacco, premium shares have
     returned to all time low, and volumes are now declining at twice the
rate of the overall market.

   6.Next week's election likely to be non-event. Next Tuesday's election
is only an issue
     under two scenarios, both to which we attach low odds: a) Republicans
pick up +5 seats in
     the Senate to get to a filibuster-proof majority of 60 seats (now
55R, 45D). This would cause
     speculation that there may be sweeping tort reform next year; or b)
Democrats pick up +11
     seats in the House, allowing them to reclaim majority (now 228R,
206D, 1-Ind.). This would
     raise new worries about excise tax increases in 1999. We expect
California's Proposition 10
      (to raise state cigarette excise tax from $.37/pack to $.87/pack) to
pass by a wide margin, but
     consistent with other states that have passed large tax hikes, cause
little investor reaction.

    7.Cigarette pricing: Marlboro pushes the promo dial again. Our trade
sources are betting
      on another $.075/pack price hike within the next two weeks, to be
followed by a second
      $.075/pack hike the first week of December. This would bring to $.4


 O/pack the pricing taken
      since last September. From the most recent IRI data, we compute that
 the industry has taken
      net pricing of $.15/pack since last September, although list prices
 have increased by
      $.25/pack. We heard this week that Philip Morris has raised its 4Q
 retail buydown of
      Marlboro to $3.00/carton for 6 weeks of volume; Marlboro's previous
 retail buydown was
      $2.50/carton for 5 weeks in 2Q -- which was increased from the 1997
 buydown of
      $2.00/carton. This is likely to cushion the coming sharp price
 increases associated with the
      deal, or may be in response to the Marlboro-Doral price gap widening
 to its highest level
       ($.50/pack) since Marlboro-Friday. The Marlboro buydown will add to
 RJR's Winston and
      Camel woes.

    8.Smokeless pricing: Swedish Match takes half of UST's discount price
 increase. Our
      trade sources say that Swedish Match has followed half of UST's price
 increase on price/value
      brands, taking $.10/can to UST's $.20/can increase on Red Seal. The
 Swedish Match action
       (discount market leader with 40% share; UST has 8% share) will likely
 cause Conwood (#3
      discount player with 15% share) to raise prices by $.10/can on
 price/value. Conwood had
      previously not followed the UST discount increase. Swisher, the #2
 player in price/value (37%
      share), is likely to follow the $.10.can increase on discounts, but
 take no pricing on its
      2-for-1s, which Swisher is gradually converting to single discount
 cans. We expect retailers to
      raise the retail price on swisher's 2-for-1s by the same $.20/can
 price increase taken by UST
      on premiums, and then pocket the $.20 increase for themselves.
 ---------------------- Forwarded by Bruce N. Reed/OPD/EOP on 11/03/98
 04:08 PM ---------------------------




 Cynthia A. Rice
 11/03/98 11:13:41 AM
 Record Type:    Record

 To:      Bruce N. Reed/OPD/EOP, Elena Kagan/OPD/EOP, Laura Emmett/WHO/EOP
 cc:
 Subject:         Question for Christine Gregoire

 Besides asking about the public health provisions generally, we should ask
 if there are any tobacco documents provisions (putting all the industry
 docs on web site, etc.)   There are rumours that there may be.


