RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Diana Fortuna ( CN=Diana Fortuna/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:24-FEB-1997 19:05:19.00

SUBJECT:   Language from old Olivia testimony

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=E1ena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1
READ: UNKNOWN

CC: Melinda D. Haskins ( CN=Melinda D. Haskins/OU=OMB/O=EOP @ EOP [ OMB 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Here is the whole paragraph from last week's testimony.  It probably needs
a new intro/beginning to make it make sense in this context.  Something
like:  "As you work to fashion this package, we would like to recommend to
you certain additional changes we strongly support.  These changes were
not part of our own technical corrections package because we had not
developed them sufficiently at the time our package was put together."

Here's the old paragraph:

"The Clinton Administration is committed to an effective implementation of
this historic welfare reform law that transforms the welfare system into
one with tough work requirements.  We have a great deal of confidence in
the states, and we believe that they will use the flexibility in the law
to strengthen the focus on work. We will collect all the information we
can on how the states are using their dollars and we will take all the
administrative actions in our power to ensure that state policies focus on
work.  We will also work with you and the Governors in a bipartisan
fashion to ensure that each state's overall work effort meets the
statute's work participation requirements.   Specifically, we will seek
statutory language making it clear that the calculation of whether a state
has met the applicable participation rate shall take into account the
state's success in placing participants in both TANF and maintenance of
efforts programs' work activities.  In addition, we will work with the
states and Congress to develop legislation, if necessary, to ensure that
state flexibility in maintenance of effort programs does not result in
costs to the Federal government due to the potential loss of child support
collections."


