RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL   (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Andrea Kane ( CN=Andrea Kane/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME: 9-NOV-1998 09:41:59.00

SUBJECT:   WTW Bonus

TO: Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TO: Cynthia A. Rice ( CN=Cynthia A. Rice/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP @ EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

CC: Laura Emmett ( CN=Laura Emmett/OU=WHO/O=EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ: UNKNOWN

TEXT:
Danny Werfel from OMB/OlRA says that what he thought Barbara proposed to
Bruce was allowing any subsidized employment -- whether subsidized by TANF
or WTW --to count as employment for the two job entry measures, but no
subsidized employment could count towards the job retention and earnings
gain measure. Bruce, I just wanted to double check that this reflects
your understanding of the agreement.   It's actually better on the job
entry measures than what we'd proposed and what I thought you and Barbara
had agreed to, which was just letting employment subsidized by TANF count
for the two job entry measures. The job retention and earnings gains
would then measure retention and earnings gains only in unsubsidized
employment between Quarter 3 (April - June 99) and Quarter 5 (October -
December 99).   Someone who was in a subsidized job in Quarter 3 and an
unsubsidized job in Quarter 5 would not count.   This is a bit narrower
than what you and I discussed, but I can live with it, especially given
the broader definition for job entry, where 60% of the funds will be
awarded.

OMB will wait to convey the news to DOL until we've confirmed this
understanding of the agreement.


