RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL     (NOTES MAIL)

CRE~TOR:    Elena Kagan ( CN=Elena Kagan/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )

CREATION DATE/TIME:31-MAY-1997 15:06:11.00

SUBJECT:     Meeting with Haskins and groups on $3 billion

TO: Bruce N. Reed ( CN=Bruce N. Reed/OU=OPD/O=EOP [ OPD 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
---------------------- Forwarded by Elena Kagan/OPD/EOP on 05/31/97 03:06
PM ---------------------------



           Diana Fortuna
           05/30/97 02:17:08 PM

Record Type: Record

To: See the distribution list at the bottom of this message
cc: Elena Kagan/OPD/EOP, Emil E. Parker/OPD/EOP, cynthiarice @
thinline.com @ inet
SubJect: Meeting with Haskins and groups on $3 billion

Here are a few tidbits from Haskins' meeting with all kinds of groups and
us on his proposal on the $3billion welfare to work proposal.  He did a
side-by-side that I will circulate around.

Formula vs. competitive -- sounds like Haskins may do a split. Several
parties favored a blend: Blue Dogs, Daschle, Center on Budget.

Job creation   Haskins said he was open to this, but said he needed a
definition. Labor said it should have a transition to unsubsidized jobs.

Worker displacement -- Haskins says Shaw won't allow anything stronger
than current TANF displacement language; he said those who want more will
have to seek an amendment.

Training -- Geri Palast said that we would favor training "directly
related to employment" counting as an allowable activity.  When I asked
her why she said this immediately afterward, she asserted that this was
agreed upon in the meeting this morning with Cabinet secretaries. But I
am not so sure that is right; so we have to clarify.

Economic development -- People raised the HUD issue by asking whether a
city could build a casino.  People didn't seem to like the idea, but
weren't sure what to do.

Who's eligible -- A lot of discussion on how to best target this, with
everyone appearing to agree on the goal.  People threw out those on
benefits for 18 months or more plus mUltiple barriers and what those
should be.   A woman named Roxie from DOL criticized with the Ways and
Means minority proposal that it be those on welfare over 36 months.
Wendell suggested 30 months, but APWA pointed out that some states have
time limits shorter than that.  So people thought if you did 30 months,
you could add in those who are within 6 months of a time limit.  People
also debated whether food stamp 18-50 people should be eligible.

Cities -- no one but us spoke out in favor of this. Haskins said this
contradicted our desire that the money should be competitive, but I said


...
      you could have 2 competitive pots.    He asked why PIes weren't good enough
      for cities.



      Message Sent
      TO:~~   ____~~~~___________________________________________
      Janet Murguia/WHO/EOP
      Emily Bromberg/WHO/EOP
      Kenneth S. Apfel/OMB/EOP
      Barry White/OMB/EOP
      Keith J. Fontenot/OMB/EOP
      Jeffrey A. Farkas/OMB/EOP




