RECORD TYPE: PRESIDENTIAL    (NOTES MAIL)

CREATOR: Elena Kagan ( CN;Elena Kagan/OU;OPD/O;EOP [ OPD 1

CREATION DATE/TIME:18-JUL-1997 12:12:36.00

SUBJECT:   Weekly Report


TO: Laura Emmett ( CN;Laura Emmett/OU;WHO/O;EOP @ EOP [ WHO 1 )
READ:UNKNOWN

TEXT:
---------------------- .Forwarded by Elena Kagan/OPD/EOP on 07/18/97 12:12
PM ---------------------------




Sandra Thurman
07/17/97 07:18:20 PM
Record Type:    Record

To:      Elena Kagan/OPD/EOP
cc:
Subject:         Weekly Report


        Needle Exchange - The House Labor/HHS Subcommittee of
Approprations marked up their bill on July 15 without a challenge to the
Chairman's mark which preserves the waiver authority of the Secretary of
HHS. HHS ( Kevin Thurm) and the AIDS advocates have been assured by the
staff directors for Reps. Porter and Obey that no unfriendly amendments
are expected at at full committee. This is great news so far, however we
are anxiously watching, waiting, and keeping our fingers crossed.

We are in daily contact with a number of AIDS organizations on this issue
and continue to assure them that we are prepared to fight to preserve the
Secretary's authority should the need arise.



        Decreases in the AIDS Death Rate - On Monday, July 14 the CDC
released new figures showing a 19% decrease in the AIDS death rate in the
first 9 months of 1996, compared with the same period in 1995. The CDC
attributed these findings to greater access to medical care and the
development of effective therapies for HIV and associated opportunistic
infections. The AIDS advocates noted that as AIDS death rates decline,
there are increasing numbers of individuals living with HIV who require
access to these lifesaving interventions.

We are continuing to emphasize that, while we are delighted with the news
of the drop in death rates, we must not forget that rates of infection are
on the rise in women, people of color, and adolescents. The epidemic is
not over.




